Madame Apolline Delacour was a half-Veela French witch, married to Monsieur Delacour. She was described as beautiful and blonde, like her daughters, Fleur and Gabrielle; these traits were inherited from Apolline's Veela mother.


== Biography ==
In 1995, Apolline and her husband visited Fleur before the Third Task of the Triwizard Tournament at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			The Delacours, The Weasleys, Muriel, Elphias Doge and the Lupins 		 	 
In the summer of 1997, the Delacours came to visit the Weasleys at the Burrow to prepare for Fleur's wedding to Bill Weasley. While there, Apolline enjoyed Molly Weasley's cooking and hospitality and helped with the preparations, as she was noted to be very accomplished with household spells. During their visit, Apolline and her husband were shown to be very helpful, pleasant guests. She was seen listening to Kingsley Shacklebolt's corporeal Lynx Patronus, which warned the Wedding guests that the Ministry had fallen and that Death Eaters would soon be arriving. She, her husband and Gabrielle then safely evacuated the wedding, and returned to France, with Bill and Fleur retreating to Shell Cottage.
Through her daughter Fleur and son-in-law Bill, Apolline was the maternal grandmother of Victoire, Dominique and Louis Weasley.


== Physical appearance ==
Apolline, due to her Veela heritage, was described as a beautiful woman with blonde hair, who wore long, green leafy robes to her daughter's wedding.


== Personality and traits ==
Apolline was shown to be a very gracious and sophisticated woman, as she and her husband both happily helped the Weasley family prepare for the wedding of her daughter and son-in-law, and other wedding guests noted to her to have been pleasant and polite. She was also very grateful of Molly Weasley's cooking and hospitality whilst she stayed at her house. Furthermore, she was shown to be a good mother who loved and cared for her family, as she visited her daughter Fleur before she took part in the Third Task of the Triwizard Tournament, showing her to have been very supportive and proud of her daughter's achievements.


== Etymology ==
Apolline is the French version of the name Apollonia, derived from Apollo, the Greek god of the sun, prophecy, music and beauty.
De la cour is French for "of the court" (royal).


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (film) (Possibly)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7 (As "Madame Delacour") (DS version)


== Notes and references ==