Professor Arsenius Jigger was a wizard and an author specialising in Potions and Defence Against the Dark Arts.


== Biography ==
In his lifetime, he wrote several books in the fields of Potions and Defence Against the Dark Arts, having written: Magical Drafts and Potions, Potion Opuscule, and The Essential Defence Against the Dark Arts.
Arsenius Jigger also contributed to Transfiguration Today in the 1920s such as the article Lycanthropy v. Werewolfry. He was also, at an unknown point, a professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. A shop in Diagon Alley, London  bears the name Slug and Jiggers, and may have been founded or owned by him.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Defence Against the Dark Arts: Jigger was an expert in defensive magic, having written the well-regarded DADA textbook The Essential Defence Against the Dark Arts, and was even the Professor of this subject at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry at an unknown point, showing his highly proficient knowledge in defending oneself against the Dark Arts.
Potions: Jigger was highly accomplished in the magical art and science of potion-making, having written two Potions books in his lifetime, Magical Drafts and Potions and Potion Opuscule, the former of which was used as Hogwarts textbook in the subject.
Transfiguration: Jigger was also knowledgeable of this notably very advanced, difficult and scientific branch of magic, having contributed to the Transfiguration academic journal Transfiguration Today, with an article regarding Werewolves and Lycanthropy, showing he was well informed of the nature of Human Transfiguration, a particularly hard form of transfiguration.


== Etymology ==
Arsenius may be derived from the word "arsenious" meaning "containing arsenic", a very poisonous metallic element. Arsenius may also be be a reference to the famous physicist and chemist Svante Arrhenius, most widely known for formulating the first modern definition of acids and bases in molecular terms.
A jigger can refer to a liquid measurement that is used often for liquor, or a measuring cup specifically for measuring that amount of liquid. In the United States of America, a jigger usually holds 1.5 fluid ounces (44 ml). In modern bartending, a jigger is 50 ml.


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (First mentioned)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (film) (Name appears on book cover and carved into wood panel)
Harry Potter Page to Screen: The Complete Filmmaking Journey (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter Limited Edition (Mentioned only)
Pottermore (Mentioned only)
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film) (Mentioned in a newspaper)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Mentioned only)
The Art of Harry Potter Mini Book of Graphic Design (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (Mentioned only)


== Notes and references ==