Artemis was a mysterious white female Eagle owl, whom Liz Tuttle found in her sixth year. Liz and Chiara Lobosca looked after the owl in the Forbidden Forest.


== Biography ==
Artemis belonged to dangerous wizards who knew Patricia Rakepick. She didn't look very well cared for.
During the 1989–1990 school year, Artemis was taken to Hogsmeade by Rakepick who was staying at the Hog's Head Inn. The owl was spotted by Liz Tuttle at Hogsmeade Station, but she couldn't see who it belonged to. Liz later saw her again, when she flew in the Forest Grove to get food. Liz began feeding her, and named her Artemis, after Newton Scamander.
Artemis was seen by Talbott Winger heading into the Forbidden Forest to get fed by Liz once. A person working for the organisation "R" used Artemis to send a threat to one of Jacob's sibling's friends. They began searching for the white owl in the Owlery, but Talbott suggested they look in the Forbidden Forest instead.
Jacob's sibling found Artemis being introduced to Chiara Lobosca and Borf by Liz, and frightened her off. They suggested they look for Artemis at Hogsmeade Station. Tonks helped, but they couldn't find her so they went to Zonko's. Bilton told them about seeing her flying into the Hog's Head, so they went to ask Aberforth Dumbledore who she belonged to. He wouldn't say at first, but eventually told them it was Rakepick. The owl had at one point, tried to peck out a customer's eyes.
Rakepick and Artemis had gone to Knockturn Alley by then, so Jacob's sibling and Ben Copper snuck away to track her down. They found Mundungus Fletcher in disguise, who told them how Rakepick had been around with the "rotten" bird but that it belonged to Rakepick's dangerous friends. The owl had nearly ruined Fletcher's cover when he was hiding.


== Behind the scenes ==
While not the same species, Artemis being a white owl and thus a conscious clue to a person is similar to Hedwig who was not used to send messages to Sirius Black for the same reason.


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (First appearance)


== Notes and references ==