King Arthur was a medieval ruler of what is today Britain. Accounts of his life are legend in both the Muggle and wizarding worlds.


== Biography ==
Arthur ruled what is today Britain during the Middle Ages. The Dark witch Morgan le Fay was his half-sister, but his parentage is unknown, as is whether he was a Muggle or not.
The great wizard Merlin was a key member of the Court of King Arthur. The Knights of the Round Table were also an important part of the Court, and included Sir Lancelot, Sir Bedivere and Sir Percivale. Wizards and witches commonly hold that this order included a wizard, Sir Cadogan, who got the position by being a friend of Merlin. Tellings of the story of King Arthur differed between the Muggle and wizarding worlds, in that Sir Cadogan was included in wizarding versions, but absent in Muggle ones.


== Behind the scenes ==
Richard Harris, who played Albus Dumbledore in the Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone and Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, played Arthur in the 1967 film Camelot. Following his death in 2002 a statue of him in this role was erected in Bedford Row in the centre of his home town of Limerick.
Jamie Campbell Bower, who played the teenage Gellert Grindelwald in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1, played Arthur in the TV series Camelot. Merlin was played by Joseph Fiennes, brother of Ralph Fiennes (Lord Voldemort), and Morgan le Fay was played by former Bond girl Eva Green. ﻿
King Arthur and Harry Potter can be seen as similar; both held swords in fights (Arthur Excalibur and Harry Gryffindor's sword), both had mentors (Merlin and Dumbledore) and both married women with a similar name (Guinevere and Ginevra)
J. K. Rowling said King Arthur from T.H. White's The Sword in The Stone is Harry Potter's spiritual ancestor.
Arthur's time of existence in the Harry Potter universe (like Merlin, Morgan le Fay etc) is paradoxical as the King Arthur of the Arthurian legends is said to have lived and reigned in the 5th or 6th century. As Merlin attended Hogwarts and was a part of King Arthur's Court and an advisor to him, then he, like the legendary version of Merlin predates Hogwarts by around 400/500 years.


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (video game) (Mentioned on Merlin and Morgan le Fay Famous Wizard Card)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game) (Mentioned on Merlin and Morgan le Fay Famous Wizard Card)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (video game) (Mentioned on Merlin and Morgan le Fay Famous Wizard Card)
Pottermore
Wizarding World


== Notes and references ==


== External links ==
King Arthur at Wikipedia