One of these spiders being struck dead with the lethal Killing Curse 		 	 
These three spiders were kept by Bartemius Crouch Junior in a glass jar.


== History ==

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Barty Crouch Junior (as Alastor Moody) teaching fourth years about the Unforgivable Curses using these spiders 		 	 
Bartemius Crouch Junior impersonated Alastor Moody for the 1994–1995 school year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, posing as a Defence Against the Dark Arts professor. In his first Defence Against the Dark Arts lesson with fourth year Gryffindors in September 1994, Barty used these spiders to show students the effects of the Unforgivable Curses.
The first spider was placed under the Imperius Curse, and was made to dance and perform acrobatics. Everyone in class were laughing, until he suggested to students that he could force it to commit suicidal acts or crawl down someone's throat, as well as putting the curse on them.
The second spider was tortured by the Cruciatus Curse, much to the discomfort of Neville Longbottom as his parents were tortured into insanity with this curse by Death Eaters (unknowingly, one of those Death Eaters was standing right in front of him), and only stopped at Hermione Granger's behest. The Engorgement Charm was used on the spider beforehand to have a better visualisation of the spider's sufferings on the curse. He then shrank it with the Shrinking Charm and placed it back in the jar.

The third spider was struck by the Killing Curse, and died instantly. Somehow knowing its impending doom, the third spider even tried to avoid Barty's grasp in the jar and even tried to scuttle off the table to survive. The use of this heinous curse had a profound effect on Harry Potter, as he was aware that both his parents were murdered with that very curse by Voldemort the night he got his scar. Ron was also very startled with the sudden use of this curse, and many girls in the glass even stifled cries, having witnessed such a disturbing demonstration of the Dark Arts.


== Behind the scenes ==
 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			A scorpion being used instead of a spider in the film adaptation 		 	 
In the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, these spiders are replaced by a single scorpion, specifically an Amblypygi, also known as a "whip spiders" or "tailless whip scorpions". The scorpion in this film should not be confused with a spider, since scorpions are an entirely different, but similar (particularly with their physical appearances) species of arthropods. Also in the film, Barty calls the scorpion a female, and quips that her bite is lethal. In reality, amblypygi (or tailless whip spiders) are completely harmless to humans, and are quite good-natured. So, this is possible that he merely wanted to scare the students.


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (First appearance)
Pottermore


== Notes and references ==