Bly was a Dark Wizard and a lemur Animagus.


== Biography ==

During his life, Bly searched for a treasured artefact which turned out to be the Turner family's heirloom and murdered Lottie Turner's father for it.

 	 	 	 		 			 		 		 		 			Bly in his Animagus form, a lemur 		 	 
Bly put the Imperius Curse on Jakub Gorski, the visiting History of Magic Professor at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, and transformed into his lemur Animagus form to disguise as Gorski's animal assistant. At one point, he came down to the Chamber of Secrets in his human form, likely in search of Basil Aurelius III's portrait, and when Basil alerted him to a group of students who were talking to Basil at the time, Bly animated a snake statue in the chamber to attack the students before fleeing. He also accompanied Gorski in his Animagus form when he came to the students to check out their progress of the assignment on various occasions.
Once in his Animagus form in the History of Magic Classroom, he controlled Gorski to say "I'm always watching" and bewitch suits of armour to attack the students, who was confronting Gorski about his suspicious activities. He then left, still in his Animagus form but with a wand in his hand, which befuddled the students.
When the students, including Lottie Turner, led the way to the heirloom, Bly showed up in his human form and dragged Lottie through the final barrier, a magical mirror, and forced her to open the heirloom's container, revealing the heirloom to be a brush. Her friends met up with them and Bly, mistaking the brush to be a wand, attempted to use it against them, but of course failed.


== Magical abilities and skills ==

Dark Arts: Bly was capable of bewitching Jakub Gorski with the Imperius Curse, one of the Unforgivable Curses which required much magical skill to perform.
Duelling: Bly was capable of duelling opponents in combat confidently, showing he was skilled with martial magic, although he was defeated by several Hogwarts students.
Transfiguration: Bly was an Animagus who took the form of a lemur, showing he had mastered the magic of Human Transfiguration, considering the difficulty and patience required in becoming one.
Nonverbal magic: Bly was capable of removing his hood with a simple wave of his wand without saying an incantation, along with the casting of offensive spells, showing he was proficient with nonverbal magic, which was known to be difficult.


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter: Magic Awakened (First appearance)


== Notes and references ==