Bogrod (d. 1 May, 1998) was a Goblin and a bank teller at Gringotts Wizarding Bank in the late 1990s. In 1998, during their break-in of Gringotts Wizarding Bank, Harry Potter, Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger put Bogrod under the Imperius Curse in order to enter Lestrange Vault undetected. Whilst the trio tried to escape, Bogrod was burnt to death by the security dragon.


== Biography ==


=== Early life ===
Bogrod was apparently an elder Goblin. At some point in his life, he was employed by Gringotts Wizarding Bank and worked in the capacity of bank teller at the main offices in Diagon Alley, by the 1990s.


=== 1998 Gringotts break-In and death ===

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Harry casting the Imperius Curse to Bogrod allow them enter inside the vault 		 	 
As part of the hunt for Lord Voldemort's Horcruxes, Harry Potter, Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger had to break into the Lestrange Vault at Gringotts Wizarding Bank to retrieve Helga Hufflepuff's cup.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Bogrod driving the mine cart to the Lestrange Vault 		 	 
On 1 May, 1998, Hermione Granger, disguised as Bellatrix Lestrange; Ronald Weasley, disguised as "Dragomir Despard"; Harry Potter and Griphook, both under the Invisibility Cloak, set off to Diagon Alley. Upon their arrival at the bank, they were joined by Travers, a Death Eater. Given the recent events at Malfoy Manor, after which the occupants were confined to the Manor, Bellatrix's presence at the Bank aroused Travers's and Goblins' suspicion, so Harry Potter placed him and Bogrod, the clerk who was checking Bellatrix's identification, under the Imperius Curse so that they cooperated.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Bogrod, Griphook, and Hermione Granger at Lestrange Vault in 1998 		 	 
While Travers was sent away, Bogrod escorted them on a cart through the underground levels of the bank. The cart went through the Thief's Downfall, after which Bogrod regained his conscious self momentarily before Harry Potter cast another Imperius Curse at him.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Bogrod's last moments 		 	 
Bogrod lead them past the security dragon, and opened the door to the Lestrange Vault to them. When the treasure inside began to multiply as a result of the Geminio and Flagrante Curses being placed on it as a security measure, Hermione and Ron had to struggle to keep Bogrod from falling under the tide. When Griphook left the Vault with Godric Gryffindor's Sword and joined the Goblins that tried to stop the trio Bogrod left too and, still confused by the Imperius Curse cast on him, stood within the security dragon's reach and was subsequently burned to death by a jet of fire it breathed.


=== The Calamity ===
During the Calamity which affected the Wizarding world in the 2010s, a Foundable memory of Bogrod could be found trapped in a storm Confoundable. Members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force had to free him with Meteolojinx Recanto, which eradicated the storm cloud and sent the Foundable back to its original place. 


== Behind the scenes ==
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Bogrod as he appears in Harry Potter: Wizards Unite 		 	 
Bogrod was portrayed by Jon Key in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2.
Despite this line was cut from the final film, the original Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 screenplay included a line in which an Imperiused Bogrod intimidates another Goblin to let "Madam Lestrange" into her vault by saying "I've run this bank for forty-five years, long before anyone had even heard of a Death Eater. The day may come that they feel they can run this place better than me, but that day has not yet arrived. Am I understood?" The novel implies, however, that even though Bogrod enjoys some seniority (being assisted by a younger goblin on command), he does not run the bank: another goblin reminds him that they are to follow higher instructions regarding Bellatrix Lestrange.
In the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Bogrod fails to escape with Griphook and is scorched to death by the dragon. In the book, what happened to Bogrod is unspecified, and we last hear of him when Ron and Hermione struggle to keep him from falling under the tide of multiplying gold at the Lestrange Vault. His remains were never shown except in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7 where his skeleton appears after getting burned.


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 (video game)
Pottermore
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite


== Notes and references ==