Cadmus is haunted by his lost love 		 	 
According to legend, this woman was in love with Cadmus Peverell, and was set to be married to him before her untimely death. Although Cadmus attempted to use the Resurrection Stone he had taken from Death to bring her back to the world of the living, she was unable to fully return to life, existing as "neither ghost nor truly flesh". In his despair, Cadmus committed suicide in order to be with her again.


== Behind the scenes ==
The House of Gaunt are direct descendants of Cadmus Peverell, so it is certain that Cadmus had at least one child in his lifetime. It is not specified if this woman was the mother, or if Cadmus had fathered children from a previous or later relationship. If this woman is the mother of Cadmus Peverell's child/children then she is a direct relative to Tom Riddle Jnr. However, as Albus Dumbledore believed that, in reality, the Deathly Hallows had not been gifts from Death but rather inventions of the Peverells themselves, it is also possible that the circumstances of Cadmus' death were embellished somewhat with the passing down of the legend. Yet, it could be true that he created the Resurrection Stone before his fiancee died, likely in childbirth with his heir, and so he committed suicide after the use of his creation taunted him with her solid, undead figure.
It is possible that she did not exist, and her existence was simply fictionalised by Beedle to explain Cadmus' death. Because there is no way Beedle knew what was really happening, so it is safe to assume that the account in his tale are simply from Beedle's own fancy.
In the consoles versions LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7, the woman becomes playable only when Cadmus Peverell uses the Resurrection Stone at some dangerous events.
The woman of the story bears some resemblance to the Ancient Greek character of Eurydice. In the myth, Eurydice hoped to marry the musician, Orpheus, but was tricked by a satyr into being bitten on the foot by a poisoned snake on her wedding day. Like Cadmus, Orpheus attempts to being her back from the dead, but sadly fails.


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (First mentioned)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (First appearance) (Appears in flashback(s))
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (video game) (Appears in flashback(s))
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
The Tales of Beedle the Bard (real)


== Notes and references ==