Caelan was a Quintaped who resided in the Foggy Moor of the Magical Creatures Reserve in the late 1980s.


== Biography ==

According to legend, Quintapeds were a result of Human Transfiguration on the MacBoon clan, and the Ministry wanted to prove this but hadn't found a Quintaped cooperative enough. Caelan, despite his reluctance to be Untransfigured back to human, got the Ministry's attention when they heard of his presence, and when an individual at the Hog's Head Inn tipped Rubeus Hagrid to him, he naturally decided to take it upon himself to plead on his behalf and brought him to the Magical Creatures Reserve at some point before or during the 1987–1988 school year.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Caelan seen on Barnaby's photo 		 	 
When Jacob's sibling, Chiara Lobosca and Barnaby Lee spotted what appeared to be a Moon Frog (actually Sir Ribbithe who had been feeding on Glow Bugs) near the Great Lake at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, Barnaby took a photo of him, on which Caelan could be seen in the background. Unknowing of his identity, Jacob's sibling was curious and asked Nymphadora Tonks if he had been her in disguise, which she neither confirmed nor denied.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Jacob's sibling bonding with Caelan 		 	 
Jacob's sibling was later properly introduced to Caelan by Hagrid. It took a while for Caelan to come out from Hagrid's garden, and when he finally did, they noticed he had a broken arm. Jacob's sibling asked Professor Kettleburn as well as Barnaby Lee and Charlie Weasley for help, and they came up with an idea of telling him a story of being at Hogwarts. This successfully appeased Caelan who wrapped his arm around Jacob's sibling's leg.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Merula Snyde approaching Caelan, preparing to hit him with the Stunning Spell 		 	 
They soon brought Caelan to see Madam Pomfrey, who was at first hesitant to treat a Quintaped but later convinced to let them use some Skele-Gro on him. Just as Pomfrey left, Merula Snyde showed up and used the Stunning Spell on him, scaring him into the Forest Grove. Merula caught up with him and attempted to Untransfigure, but not before Jacob's sibling arrived and stopped her from doing so by pointing out the similarities between her and Caelan. When they talked about his unfortunate life, Caelan became sorrowful, but was calmed down after watching an exhibitive duel between Merula and Jacob's sibling.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Caelan fully healed 		 	 
Caelan was then taken to the Care of Magical Creatures grounds and treated with the Skele-Gro. After he was fully healed, Hagrid stepped in and announced that the Ministry had decided not to Untransfigure him and to let him continue to live in the Magical Creatures Reserve. Jacob's sibling and their friends then gave Caelan a hand settling in to his new home.


== Behind the scenes ==
This Quintaped can be renamed by the player just like other creatures in the Magical Creatures Reserve, but regardless of whether he's renamed, he's still referred to as "Caelan" throughout the "A Helping Hand" side quest.


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (First appearance)


== Notes and references ==