Carrow was a Dark Witch who lived in the 1920s, and was a member of the Carrow family. She was a member of Gellert Grindelwald's Alliance, and one of the devoted acolytes that formed his inner circle. 


== Biography ==
Carrow became an ardent follower of Gellert Grindelwald at some point prior to 1927 and became one of his acolytes.
She accompanied Grindelwald to Paris and she took part along with the other acolytes in murdering a Non-Magique man and woman, along with their infant son, whom she murdered personally on Grindelwald's orders with the Killing Curse. After murdering the family, they used their home as a temporary headquarters and safe house as they searched for Credence Barebone.
She attended Grindelwald's rally at the Cimetière du Père-Lachaise in the Lestrange Mausoleum and disapparated away after crossing the enchanted fire that tested one's loyalty following the entrance of Aurors and did not participate in the subsequent battle after that.


== Personality and traits ==
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Carrow seconds before killing a child 		 	 
Carrow was a dedicated follower of the Dark wizard Gellert Grindelwald and his beliefs in Wizarding supremacy. She was obedient to her master, and was even willing to commit the murder of an innocent child when instructed to do so. When she and several other acolytes seized control of a Parisian home belonging to a non-magical family the task of murdering the infant boy fell to Carrow. No verbal command was spoken, but she deduced Grindelwald's desire, and did not flinch from the task; executing the child swiftly with little to no display of emotion.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Dark Arts: Carrow was proficient with dark magic, as she was able to cast the Killing Curse on a male infant, an Unforgivable Curse which requires significant magical ability to perform as well as genuine malice.
Apparition: Carrow as accomplished in apparition, as she was able to apparate successfully away from the Lestrange Mausoleum.


== Behind the scenes ==
Carrow is played by Maja Bloom in Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald.


== Appearances ==

Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald - The Original Screenplay (First appearance)
Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald
The Archive of Magic: The Film Wizardry of Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald
Pottermore (Mentioned only)
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)


== Notes and references ==