Cassandra Vablatsky (1894 - 1997) was a witch, celebrated Seer and author of Unfogging the Future, a Divination textbook required at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Divination: Vablastsky was an esteemed Seer, meaning she was naturally gifted with the Inner Eye and could receive genunine visions of the future. She even authored a textbook on the subject, Unfogging the Future, showing her knowledge and skill in this field of magic.


== Etymology ==
Cassandra means "oracle". In Greek mythology, Cassandra means "she who entangles men" and she was the daughter of King Priam and Queen Hecuba. Apollo, god of archery and poetry, as well as oracles, fell in love for her beauty and gave her the gift of prophecy. However, when she did not return his love, Apollo placed a curse on her so that no one would ever believe her predictions and her visions would only be of tragic events yet to come.


== Behind the scenes ==
Vablatsky’s date of death was given on a Famous Wizard Card in the video game adaptation of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, which takes place in 1991-1992, but Vablatsky’s death occurred six years later. This might have been a mistake, or possibly Vablatsky (or another Seer) foresaw her death and it was added to her biography.
She was likely named after Madame Helena Blavatsky, a 19th-century psychic and founder of the Theosophy movement and early proponent of New Age philosophy, who was declared a fraud in 1885 by the Society of Psychical Research. She was known for fusing ideas of modern science with esoteric tenets of Eastern spirituality.


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (video game) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (First mentioned)
Pottermore (Mentioned only)
The Art of Harry Potter Mini Book of Graphic Design (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (Mentioned only)


== Notes and references ==