Cassius Bell was a wizard and Auror who lived in the early 20th century who eventually joined the Dark Wizard, Gellert Grindelwald.


== Biography ==


=== Early life ===
Cassius Bell was presumably born at some point prior to 1910 and became an Auror at some point after his seventeenth birthday, though it is unclear which wizarding government he served.


=== Global wizarding war ===
In 1927, Cassius Bell was part of the group of Aurors, led by British Auror Theseus Scamander, who attempted to break up a rally held by the dark wizard Gellert Grindelwald in the Lestrange Mausoleum in the Parisian cemetery Cimetière du Père-Lachaise. Before entering the mausoleum, Scamander ordered his men to go easy on the crowd, reminding them it was not illegal to simply listen to Grindelwald's speech. The group then marched inside, with Bell close behind Scamander.
Upon entering the sunken auditorium like space in which Grindelwald was addressing his supporters, Bell and the other Aurors silently spread out along the wall of the chamber's upper most level. The dark wizard spotted the group's arrival and invited them to come closer. Bell looked around at the other Aurors in shock upon hearing this, but Scamander began making his way down one of the stairways in the auditorium toward Grindelwald, and Bell followed suit, descending first down a separate stairway with his wand drawn.
As the group moved forward, Grindelwald riled the crowd against the Aurors, prompting a young witch to attack Bell. The Auror defended himself with the Killing Curse, immediately killing his assailant and causing the crowd in the auditorium to cry out in shock. As they moved in around him he panicked and stumbled back up the stairway away from the witch's corpse. Grindelwald then approached the woman's body and told his supporters to apparate away and spread the word that it was law enforcement who was violent, not he. After the crowd had escaped, Grindelwald created a ring of dark magical fire around himself that only his loyal followers could pass through unharmed.
Theseus gave the order to attack as Grindelwald's followers escaped into the circle of fire and Apparated away. The Dark Wizard then began manipulating the black flames to lash out at the attacking Aurors, killing many of them. Bell watched the flame kill two Aurors as they attempted to apparate away, then turned calmly toward Grindelwald's ring of fire and descended towards it. Grindelwald ultimately escaped, leaving his foes to battle the flame, which he had left to destroy Paris.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Auror skills: As an Auror, Bell would have been highly accomplished and trained in the skills required needed for this career, in particular with offensive and defensive magic.
Dark Arts: Bell was capable of casting the Killing Curse proficiently, an Unforgivable Curse which required a high amount of magical skill and determination to perform.


== Behind the scenes ==
Cassius Bell is played by Christopher Birks in Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald. The name of the character is occasionally omitted in credits, with the role referred as "Young Auror".
It is possible that he is related to Katie Bell.
Given the second instalment of the Fantastic Beasts films is set in New York, Paris and London, he may have worked for the British or French Ministries of Magic, or the Magical Congress of the United States of America. It is also possible that he worked for another wizarding government.


== Appearances ==
Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald - The Original Screenplay (First identified as YOUNG AUROR)
Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald


== Notes and references ==