Professor Catullus Spangle (fl. 1700s) was a wizard who was highly regarded as a great researcher of Charms, having written a masterwork titled Charms of Defence and Deterrence.


== Biography ==
In his book, Professor Spangle set forth certain principles on the Patronus Charm that is, even today, widely accepted as true. He proposed that the Patronus was a hidden, but inherent part of one's personality, that only comes to light when the able caster needs it, such as when facing something as inhumanly evil as a Dementor (this, according to Spangle, allows us to explain why Patronuses appear in forms that their casters may not expect, or for which they have never felt a particular affinity, such as why Hermione's Patronus was very frisky and moved around a lot, paralleling her).
He also suggested that witches and wizards whose Patronus took the form of their favourite animal were obsessive or eccentric, as they were wizards who could not hide their essential self in common life, in effect parading tendencies that others would prefer to conceal.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Charms: Professor Spangle was highly knowledgeable in the field of charms, having been a renowned researcher in these types of spells. His famous work Charms of Defence and Deterrence covered the theory of defensive charms with great detail, such as with the Patronus Charm. He was presumably highly accomplished with the casting of charms himself, due to the extent of his knowledge of them.


== Etymology ==
Gaius Valerius Catullus (ca. 84–54 BC) was a Latin poet of the late Roman Republic who wrote in the neoteric style of poetry, and whose surviving poems are still widely read.
"Spangle" is a word used to refer to a sparkling metallic object or, as a verb, meaning "to adorn with small, brilliant bodies".


== Appearances ==
Pottermore (First mentioned)
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (Mentioned only)


== Notes and references ==