Officer Cerberus Langarm was a British wizard and an Officer in the Department of Magical Law Enforcement at the Ministry of Magic, where he worked as an Auror under the command of Harry Potter. Considered a 'celebrated' one, he took great pride in his position.


== Biography ==


=== Early life ===
Born somewhere in the British Isles, Cerberus Langarm was the scion of a family of unknown wizarding descent. Like nearly all other magical children born in the wizarding community of Great Britain, Cerberus presumably attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. A gifted student, he earned good marks on his exams, earning at least an 'Exceeds Expectations' mark in five of his O.W.L. examinations and graduating with similar results on his N.E.W.T.s.


=== Career as an Auror ===
Sometime after his seventeenth birthday, Cerberus joined the Ministry of Magic in London, where he worked as an Officer in the Department of Magical Law Enforcement. Having undergone the three year long training programme required to join to Auror Office and successfully passed the character and skill requirements needed to join the ranks of the official Dark Wizard catchers in the Ministry's employ, in the time that followed Cerberus fought and captured Dark wizards alongside among others Harry Potter, Mordecai Berrycloth, Dorian Fungbury and Penelope Fawley, and became a celebrated Auror himself. 
In less dangerous times with a low amount of dark magical activity to combat, however, Aurors would also be tasked with patrolling the perimeters of magical creature reserves to ward off poachers; and at least some of them, Cerberus among them, deemed the task of handling himself around magical creatures to be less dangerous than what he usually did. It was during such a time that Officer Langarm had to resign himself to less dangerous assignments; and even spent some time actively pursuing petty criminals such as Silas Crump.  
At one point, he also worked as something of a liaison officer between the Department of Magical Law Enforcement and the Beast Division in the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures, to whom he passed on intelligence regarding reports of creature-related incidents. On at least some occasions, he would lend his authority as a lawman to Mathilda Grimblehawk and her partner; accompanying them to the scene of creature-related incidents to secure areas where wild beasts was believed to be located in order to prevent further injuries, and assisted them by making investigative inquiries, and by retrieving and examining evidence for them.
In 2019, he hosted the Forum Quorum, where his advice on the health benefits of proper rest before and after battle benefited at least some members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force in attendance. He would also eventually hold a course in self-defensive spellwork that would give them an advantage in the field. He also was assigned with overseeing the Resilience Training of Aurors-in-training.


== Personality and traits ==
Known to take great pride in his position as an officer of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, Cerberus Langarm is a diligent, tough-minded individual, known to take his duties seriously and maintained an overall professional and largely courteous demeanour. Decisive in both thought and deed, he was above all else a man of action, often reaching for his wand to solve a problem rather than reason his way around it. One such example took place during his time working with the Beast Division, whereupon Cerberus agreed to help to investigate the secret owlery of Bilius Finbok, and was so quick to instinctively break down the door with a spell that he failed to realise that his co-workers had already unlocked it. He also had a somewhat old-fashioned and naive outlook on magical creatures, employing a "curse-to-kill" policy similar to the one for which the MACUSA used to be well-known for back in the 1920s when facing those he regarded as particularly dangerous. He also possessed a dry wit, and was not immune to the finding of amusements at other people's expense, as seen when he delegated the task of going through the accounts ledger from Slug & Jiggers Apothecary in Diagon Alley to Mathilda and her partner, telling her to "enjoy", despite the fact that he knew she was no more fond of paperwork than himself. Proud to a fault, he was also embarrassed about some of his own shortcomings and hence, reluctant to acknowledge them in front of other people, such as his fear of snakes.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Highly skilled, incredibly well-trained and rather powerful, Cerberus Langarm was a very accomplished wizard, being more than proficient in both the theory of at least Potions, Defence Against the Dark Arts, Transfiguration, Herbology, and Charms, as well as adept in the application of that knowledge.

Auror skills: As an official Dark Wizard catcher, Cerberus Langarm was a very capable investigator trained extensively as to become a well-respected expert in his line of work, and responsible for his fair share of captures and arrests of dangerous Dark Wizards over the course of his career at the Auror Office.
Martial magic: As an Auror, Officer Langarm was an accomplished duellist, and had seen combat more than once in his time at the Ministry, and would go on to share his experiences with the Aurors-in-training working for the Statute of Secrecy Task Force in order to help them contain The Calamity.


== Etymology ==
His first name is the Latin version of Kerberos (Κέρβερος), the three-headed dog which in Greek legend guarded the entrance to Hades. His last name appear to be a pun on "long arm", as in the idiom long arm of the law, which is used to refer to the police.


== Appearances ==

Fantastic Beasts: Cases from the Wizarding World (First appearance)
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite


== Notes and references ==