Charlus Potter was a pure-blood wizard and a member of the Potter family. He married Dorea Black and together they had a son.
Charlus was the uncle by marriage of Alphard, Cygnus and Walburga Black, thus he is the great-uncle of Sirius Black III and Regulus Black II, as well as Bellatrix Lestrange, Andromeda Tonks and Narcissa Malfoy. As well as this, Charlus is the great-great uncle of Draco Malfoy and Nymphadora Tonks and the great-great-great uncle of Scorpius Malfoy and Ted Lupin. Also, he is related in some way to James Potter and his son, the famous Harry Potter.


== Etymology ==
Charlus could refer back to the name Charles. It is derived from the Germanic karl or hari. It can mean "man", "army" or "warrior". This can relate to many members of the Potter family.
Potter is a very common surname of English origin. It traditionally refers to the occupation of making pottery. Beatrix Potter was a well-known English children's author. Potter's field is the name for a burial ground for the unknown or unclaimed dead, particularly soldiers and orphans. The Potter family had many members that fit that description. The Potter Box is a model for making ethical decisions developed at Harvard University. J. K. Rowling has also commented that she has liked the name since childhood, as a family that had lived near her carried this surname.


== Behind the scenes ==
There was some speculation that Charlus Potter was the father of James Potter and the paternal grandfather of Harry Potter. Later,  Pottermore has revealed that Fleamont Potter, not Charlus, is Harry's grandfather. In spite of this, it is still more than likely that Charlus was an uncle or cousin of James Potter and his descendants, or perhaps a more distant relative of Abraham Potter.
Charlus was not featured on the Potter family tree on  Pottermore. So it is possible he is not closely related to any of the Potters that are featured on that tree.
J. K. Rowling has stated that Harry had no family remaining other than the Dursleys at the time of Lord Voldemort's attack on Godric's Hollow, suggesting that Charlus, and any descendants he might have had otherwise, were dead by this time. However, this is not fully confirmed, and it is not known exactly what happened to them.


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) (Appears on Black family tree tapestry)


== Notes and references ==