Cliodna, also known as Cliodne, was a famous medieval Irish witch and druidess.


== Biography ==
An Animagus with the ability to turn into a sea bird, she was aided by three magical birds that cured the sick by singing them to sleep. It was also said that she could turn into a wave. She also discovered the properties of Moondew. Cliodne appeared on a Chocolate Frog Card.
In September of 1991, Harry Potter picked up a Chocolate Frog Card with a picture of Cliodna, who was scratching her nose.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Potions: Cliodna was highly proficient with potions, as she discovered a new ingredient, Moondew and its properties in potion-making. Furthermore, she would have needed to have brewed the Animagus potion in order for her to gain the ability to fully transform, a potion known for being highly difficult, complex and time-consuming, showing her very impressive talent in the art of potion-making.
Transfiguration: She was also a mistress of transfiguration, being able to turn herself into a sea bird at will. Given how Human Transfiguration is an incredibly complex and even dangerous branch of transfiguration, this was a remarkable magical feat.


== Behind the scenes ==
In Irish mythology, Cliodna was a goddess of love and beauty, said to have three brightly coloured birds whose song healed the sick. She left Tir Tairngire to be with her mortal lover, Ciabhán, but drowned as she slept in Glandore harbour in County Cork.
She was also rumoured to be the "Queen of the Banshees".


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (Mentioned only) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (video game) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (video game) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (video game) (Mentioned only) (Nintendo DS version only)
Pottermore (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)


== Notes and references ==