Corvus Lestrange (b. pre 1879 - d. pre 1927) was a French wizard and a member of the pure-blood Lestrange family. He was the son of Corvus Lestrange and Eglantine Lestrange. He abducted Laurena Kama and had a daughter with her, Leta Lestrange. When Laurena died, he married Clarisse Tremblay and had a son with her, Corvus.


== Biography ==
Corvus was acquainted with the Kama Family. One night, Corvus Lestrange put Laurena Kama under the Imperius Curse to lure her away from her family. He had a daughter with her, Leta Lestrange. Laurena died shortly after. Shortly after he married Clarisse Tremblay. Their union produced a son, Corvus. When Clarisse died, Corvus was the light in his eyes.
Yusuf Kama, son of Laurena Kama and Mustafa Kama, swore an Unbreakable Vow to kill young Corvus and end the Lestrange lineage as revenge for the abduction of his mother. In an attempt to protect his son, Lestrange sent both him and his daughter Leta to America along with his servant Irma Dugard. Sometime afterwards he passed away, and a family tree he owned ended up at the French ministry.
Yusuf mistakenly believed Credence Barebone to be Corvus Lestrange (along with much of the rest of the wizarding world), as he was unaware that a young Leta had switched Corvus in his crib with Aurelius Dumbledore, and attempted to resolve his vow by killing Credence.
After his death, Corvus Lestrange's remains were interred at the Lestrange Mausoleum, at the Cimetière du Père-Lachaise, in Paris, his grand marble tomb dominating the many sarcophagi there.


== Personality and traits ==
From what is known of his history, Corvus (IV) seemed to be a cold-hearted man who was not above using dark magic or forcing a woman into marriage. Furthermore, he did not care about the consequences of his actions, showing him to be rather ruthless, selfish and egotistical. He did not love his daughter Leta or Clarisse Tremblay, but loved his son, possibly because Corvus V's birth meant the future survival of his family line.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Dark Arts: Corvus was able to successfully cast the Imperius Curse on Laurena Kama, allowing him to keep her against her will. His proficiency in casting this Unforgivable Curse implies he was a skilled Dark Wizard.


== Etymology ==
"Corvus" is Latin for "raven", probably from the Greek κόραξ (korax, "raven"). Corvus is the genus of medium to large black birds including crows, ravens, jackdaws and the like. This is thus an allusion to the Dark nature of the Lestrange family, as such birds (particularly ravens) have often been harbingers of doom in folklore.


== Behind the scenes ==
Corvus Lestrange is played by Keith Chanter in Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald.


== Appearances ==

Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald - The Original Screenplay (First appearance) (Appears in flashback(s))
Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald (Appears in flashback(s))


== Notes and references ==