Edgar Bones (d. 1981) was a wizard, son of Mr and Mrs Bones, brother of Amelia and at least one other person. He attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and was possibly sorted into Hufflepuff House.
Edgar became a member of the original Order of the Phoenix and fought in the First Wizarding War. At some point he married a woman and had several children. According to Alastor Moody Edgar was a "great wizard". He and his family were murdered by Death Eaters before the war's end.


== Biography ==
Edgar was born into a wizarding family and had a sister, Amelia. He attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, where he was possibly sorted into Hufflepuff house. Edgar and Amelia also had at least one other sibling, the parent of their niece Susan.
During the First Wizarding War, Edgar Bones became member of the Order of the Phoenix, an organisation led and founded by Albus Dumbledore, in order to oppose the Dark Lord Voldemort and his Death Eaters. Edgar also married a woman and had more than one child with her. Edgar was also described as being a great wizard by Alastor Moody. Rubeus Hagrid also told Harry Potter that the Bones family was considered among the greatest wizards of all time.
Edgar was murdered, along with his wife and children, by Death Eaters sometime in the later half of 1981. His mother and father were also murdered by Voldemort.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Magical mastery: Considered to be an exceptionally talented wizard by both Alastor Moody and Rubeus Hagrid, it is highly likely that Edgar was one of the most powerful wizards in the Order.


== Etymology ==
The name "Edgar" is derived from the Old English elements ead "rich, blessed" and gar "spear". This was the name of a 10th-century English king who is regarded as a saint. The name did not survive long after the Norman conquest, but it was revived in the 18th century, in part due to a character by this name in Sir Walter Scott's novel 'The Bride of Lammermoor' (1819).


== Behind the scenes ==
Edgar Bones was portrayed by First Assistant Director Cliff Lanning in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. He only appeared in the photograph of the Order of the Phoenix.


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (Indirect mention)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (First mentioned)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) (Appears in portrait(s))
Pottermore (First appearance)


== Notes and references ==