Elizabeth II (full name Elizabeth Alexandra Mary; born 21 April 1926) was the reigning queen of the United Kingdom and other Commonwealth countries during the 1990s. She was still queen as of 2021 and became the longest serving monarch of Britain in September 2015.


== Corgi incident ==
In September 1991, one of the Queen's corgwn was transformed into a hamster by an unknown witch or wizard, prompting the Improper Use of Magic Office to launch an investigation and question several suspects. The motive behind this attack was unknown at the time, and it is not known if the culprit was ever found.
Muggle authorities, on the other hand, concluded that the Queen's corgi had been stolen and replaced with a hamster as a "cruel" prank. They launched a "full scale" search to attempt to locate the dog.
The incident was reported in the 6 September 1991 issue of the Daily Prophet.


== Depictions and references ==
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			The Queen's royal cypher on a streetlamp 		 	 
The Queen's likeness was featured on the obverse face of British banknotes. A £50 note was among several objects left on a table at the Siren's Rest pub in Wales.
The Queen's royal cypher appeared on streetlamps along the Victoria Embankment in London.


== Behind the scenes ==
In The Queen's Handbag, Queen Elizabeth II lost her handbag and the Prime Minister sent the task of finding it to Harry Potter, Hermione Granger, Ron Weasley, and Neville Longbottom. The events surrounding this short skit cannot, however, be considered canon, as it contradicts canon in several points.
It is unknown if, as Queen of the United Kingdom in the second half of the 20th century, Elizabeth II was ever made aware of the existence of the wizarding world or the wizarding goings-on like the First or Second Wizarding War, like her Prime Minister was. If Queen Victoria is any indication, then Queen Elizabeth probably remains ignorant of the wizarding world.


== Etymology ==
The name "Elizabeth" comes from Ελισαβετ (Elisabet), the Greek form of the Hebrew name אֱלִישֶׁבַע (Elisheva) meaning "my God is an oath" or perhaps "my God is abundance".


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (film) (First mentioned) (Mentioned in newspaper)
The Queen's Handbag (Mentioned only)
The Wizarding World of Harry Potter (Royal cypher appears on streetlamps)
Fantastic Beasts: Cases from the Wizarding World (Appears on a banknote)


== Notes and references ==