Elladora Black (1850 – 1931) was a pure-blood witch, and a member of House of Black. She was possibly the daughter of Cygnus Black I and his wife Ella Max, and the sister of Sirius Black I, Phineas Nigellus, and Iola. She never married or had children.


== Biography ==
Elladora was born in 1850.
Elladora instituted the policy of cutting off the heads of the family house-elves and mounting them on the wall once they became too old to carry a tea tray.


== Behind the scenes ==
Based on a statement by Horace Slughorn, Elladora may have been a member of the Slytherin House. This is most likely true, since Sirius Black said all of his family was in the Slytherin House. However, she attended Hogwarts c. 1861 - 1868, when Slughorn wasn't even born.
Elladora and her siblings may have been children of Cygnus Black I and Ella Max. In this case, their uncle would have been Arcturus Black I, Cygnus' brother, and aunt Misapinoa Blishwick née Black.
If Elladora was the sister of Sirius, Phineas and Iola, and the daughter of Ella Max and the late Cygnus, this would mean that her father died when she was about one year old, and her brother died when she was three.
Elladora's and Callidora's pictures on the Black family tree tapestry are the same. Also, Callidora and Elladora have similar names.
Sirius once said to Harry, "dear Aunt Elladora", but on the Black family tree, Elladora is Sirius' great-great-great aunt. Sirius may not have wanted to bore Harry with "great-great-great aunt", and just chosen to call her aunt, as it was easier.
Elladora was only three years old when her elder brother Sirius died.
Elladora could have possibly been a half-namesake for Callidora, as both have names ending with Dora (which is the nickname of Elladora's four-greats-niece, given to her by her father, though Tonks came from her disowned mother).


== Etymology ==
The name Ella is a Norman form of the Germanic Alia, meaning "other". It is also possibly related to Aella, a Greek name meaning "whirlwind". Aella of mythology was an Amazon killed by Hercules. The name Dora, often considered a diminutive of Theodora, is derived from the Greek word doron, meaning "gift".
Elladora was probably named after her mother Ella.


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (First mentioned)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) (Seen on Black family tree tapestry)


== Notes and references ==