Eric Munch was a British wizard, who was employed as a watchwizard at the British Ministry of Magic. He was poorly-shaven and wore peacock blue robes when on duty.


== Biography ==

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Munch stopping Jacob's sibling when Arthur and Bill Weasley came by 		 	 
Munch was working for the British Ministry of Magic during the 1990–1991 school year. When several seventh-year students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry arrived at the Ministry to receive their outdoors assignments, Munch checked them with a Probity Probe, examined their wands and credentials. When Jacob's sibling arrived late without credentials, Munch refused to let them enter. Arthur and Bill Weasley stopped by at the moment and gave their vouch for them, prompting Munch to give them clearance. Munch was later joined by Jacob's sibling and Nymphadora Tonks in examining visitors' wands, with it being one of the first assignments of the students.

On 12 August 1995, Munch sat at the security desk on the left side of the Atrium, checking visitors with a Probity Probe and registering their wands with a brass instrument before giving them clearance to enter. Munch seemed to find this portion of his job very tedious, as his voice sounded bored whilst on the job. When Harry Potter stopped by the security desk on the way to a hearing, Munch went through the check-in protocols mechanically, only noticing the famous lightning-bolt scar when he had finished. Realising who Harry was, Munch asked him to wait, but Arthur Weasley dragged Harry away from the security desk.
Munch apparently also worked the night shift on occasion. He caught an unknowingly bewitched Sturgis Podmore trying to break into Department of Mysteries at one o'clock in the morning on 31 August, 1995 and arrested him on charges of trespass and attempted robbery.
Sometime in the 2010s, Munch had to be rescued from the Department of Mysteries' Brain Room by the more recently hired Grim Fawley.


== Behind the scenes ==
Munch was featured on a conceptual art for the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. He was not, however, featured in the actual film.
Eric Munch's conspicuous absence during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries is noted by Harry when he arrives, apparently not being on duty that night. Alternatively, unless he was incapacitated by the Death Eaters and put somewhere out of sight as not to arouse the suspicion of those who might pass through the Atrium after their arrival,  it is possible that Lucius Malfoy or one of the other Death Eaters present with ties to the Ministry was able to arrange a distraction that would keep him occupied elsewhere so that the Death Eaters could enter the Department of Mysteries unseen.


== Etymology ==
The name "Eric" comes from the Old Norse name Eiríkr, derived from the elements ei "ever" and ríkr "ruler". A notable bearer was Eiríkr inn Rauda (Eric the Red in English), a 10th-century navigator and explorer who discovered Greenland. This was also the name of several early kings of Sweden, Denmark and Norway. "Munch" is a Norwegian surname, meaning "monk".


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) (Concept art only)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (Mentioned only)


== Notes and references ==