Erling the Great was a ghost who specifically told stories for ghosts. He was known for sharing stories about the most noteworthy locations in Wizarding history. Ghosts travelled far and wide to hear him speak.


== Biography ==
Erling was born in 1010 or 1011. Since he did not know Hogwarts Castle until he visited as a ghost in October 1985, he did not seem to have received his education there.
In his lifetime, he was considered a taste-maker among royalty. Erling met the Fat Friar while the two were alive. Erling mentioned having met Gregory the Smarmy in the 12th century; it's unknown whether he met him before or after his death.
Judging by his appearance, with a dagger sticking out of his chest, he was seemingly killed by stabbing. The Fat Friar remarked that when Erling was living, he "let fame and notoriety go to his head a bit".


=== Post-mortem ===
Erling loved history. After death, he travelled to hundreds of museums. He also visited Azkaban island before it was turned into a prison.


==== Hogwarts visit ====
Erling visited Hogwarts as a friend of the Fat Friar a day ahead of previous arrangement in October 1985. Jacob's sibling, along with the Fat Friar, welcomed him by offering him the Artefact Room as a haunting place and introducing Hogwarts. When they heard that Erling's Deathday was the same as Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington's, they suggested the two celebrate together, but Erling rejected this proposal, apparently wanting only himself to be in the spotlight.
He then went to the courtyard to join in the argument between Jacob's sibling, Sir Nicholas and the Fat Friar. The conversation didn't go well, and in the end Erling and Sir Nicholas decided to throw their parties separately. The Fat Friar then showed Erling the Charms Classroom where he came across Jacob's sibling and Penny Haywood, so he shared a talk with them, in which he stated that he was in talks to collaborate with a writer to collect his stories into a book. After that, he continued to the dungeons with the Fat Friar.
Erling wanted a sixteen-piece band, fireworks and a giant feast of rotten food for his Deathday Party. Along with the Fat Friar, he went to Madam Hooch to demand the Training Grounds for his party but got rejected, before cutting after the leaving Hooch for further arguments.
Upon hearing Sir Nicholas had tried to sabotage his Deathday Party by preserving the food which was intended to be spoiled, Erling came down to the courtyard to meet him and accused him of buffoonery. Sir Nicholas, who had been spotted by Professor Sprout and was ordered to give his food to Erling, had thought about cancelling his own party, but decided to carry on after seeing Erling's pompous attitude.
Halfway through his Deathday Party, Erling was brought to the courtyard by the Fat Friar, who also summoned Sir Nicholas. The Fat Friar pointed out that neither of the parties were going well, because Erling's fastidious requirements were hardly fulfilled and Sir Nicholas' had no food. He then suggested again that the two work together to salvage the evening. Erling eventually agreed to move his party to the Deathday Ballroom in the dungeons where Sir Nicholas' party was being held.


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (First appearance)


== Notes and references ==