Fang (b. circa 1984) was an over-sized Boarhound dog, and one of Rubeus Hagrid's pets. He was a large dog that lived in his hut with him and accompanied Hagrid in many places, such as the Forbidden Forest. Fang was present for the majority of the Second Wizarding War, such as the Battle of the Astronomy Tower and the Battle of Hogwarts.
It's currently unknown what happened to Fang after the Second Wizarding War, but since his name wasn't listed amongst the casualties, it can be assumed he survived.


== Biography ==


=== Early life ===

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Fang as a little puppy, fetching a stick 		 	 
Fang was born in around 1984, and became Rubeus Hagrid's pet by September of the same year. He was seen as a puppy on the school grounds fetching a stick and bolting down the hill back towards Hagrid's Hut.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Fang relaxing in his master's hut 		 	 
In 1985, Fang was trapped by the same Devil's Snare which Hagrid had rescued Jacob's sibling from the year before. Hagrid asked them if they could help him with the Devil's Snare the second time, being aware that using the Wand-Lighting Charm would only cause the dangerous plant to retreat further into the room in which it had been placed, placing Fang's life in danger.
Hagrid told Jacob's sibling to help him by brewing a Fire-Breathing Potion. Hagrid decided not to share what the potion was for, because he was embarrassed about his failure to keep a close enough eye on his pup and merely recited the ingredients. Jacob's sibling, Rowan Khanna, Ben Copper, and Penny Haywood eventually made the potion.
At some point during the 1985–1986 school year, Fang became afraid of cats, mostly due to Mrs Norris. Jacob's sibling, Rowan, Penny and Minerva McGonagall helped him overcome his fear and prepare for the pet gathering.

Hagrid then told Jacob's sibling why he needed the potion, and they saved Fang from the Devil's Snare by using the potion. Hagrid then revealed he had not named the puppy yet, and they decide on the name Fang. By September 1986, Fang enjoyed kipping in the Library and hanging out in the Transfiguration Classroom because he saw a cat in there once, which was actually Minerva McGonagall in Animagus form.
At the beginning of the 1986–1987 school year, Fang went missing when he was scared by a fairy he found in the pumpkin patch by Hagrid's Hut. Hagrid once again asked Jacob's sibling to help him. Hagrid then searched the Forbidden Forest, telling them Fang once ran in there and couldn't find the way out.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Fang in the Forbidden Forest with Harry Potter and Draco Malfoy 		 	 
In 1991, Fang accompanied first year students Draco Malfoy and Harry Potter into the Forbidden Forest for a detention, only to run away in fear after encountering a hooded figure drinking blood from a dead unicorn. After running away he soon found Hagrid, and Hermione Granger, who immediately knew that Draco and Harry were in danger.
Fang accompanied Ron Weasley and Harry to visit Aragog in the Forbidden Forest. He, Harry, and Ron were nearly eaten by Aragog's children, but they were rescued by the wild Ford Anglia that was previously owned by Ron's father, Arthur Weasley.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Fang and Buckbeak inside Hagrid's hut 		 	 
Fang was present when Buckbeak was being reviewed by the Ministry of Magic. He was seen sulking in his basket during one of the trio's many visits to Hagrid's hut during the 1993-1994 school year. Fang also shared the hut with Buckbeak after Hagrid moved the hippogriff inside after Lucius Malfoy made his case to the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures after Buckbeak attacked his son during a Care of Magical Creatures lesson that resulted in Draco's arm being injured.
In 1994, Hagrid decided not to take Fang with him to see the Dragons kept in the Forbidden Forest with Harry, as he thought he would not like them.
In 1995, when the trio tried to enter Hagrid's hut and Hagrid initialy did not answer due to being upset about Rita Skeeter's article about him being a half-giant, Fang barked and scratched at the door when they knocked. Albus Dumbledore who was with Hagrid let them in and Hagrid explained to them why he was feeling down. Later that year, Fang went with Hagrid in order to look for Bartemius Crouch Senior in the Forbidden Forest, after Viktor Krum had been found stunned.


=== Second Wizarding War ===
In 1996, after Hagrid had returned to Hogwarts after his Mission to the Giant colony, Fang was with him in the hut when the trio visited him to hear of his tale, and was very happy to see them. Fang also tried to lick Dolores Umbridge's face when she entered, but she snapped at him to get away and waved her handbag at him.
When Hagrid was attacked by Ministry of Magic Aurors led by Dolores Umbridge, Fang was hit by a Stunning Spell, when he tried to defend Hagrid, resulting in the responsible party being hurled over ten feet away by an enraged Hagrid. Hagrid took the stunned Fang with him when he escaped into the mountains. After Voldemort's return was made public and Umbridge was sacked, Hagrid and Fang returned to their hut at the edge of the Forbidden Forest.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Fang next to Harry Potter after the funeral of Aragog 		 	 
Fang was present during the funeral of Aragog "sulking in his basket during the burial" and afterwards, padded across the floor to them and laid his head in Harry Potter's lap and proceeded to slobber all over his robes. Fang was also inside Hagrid's Hut when it was set ablaze by Death Eater Thorfinn Rowle, during the Battle of the Astronomy Tower on 30 June, 1997. He was rescued shortly when Hagrid and Harry doused the fire with the Water-Making Spell. It can be assumed that Fang was present at Dumbledore's funeral.
In 1998, Fang went with Hagrid and Grawp to Hogwarts to help in the defense of the castle. However, as soon as the fighting began Fang was startled when a vase nearby was hit by a spell and exploded, and he ran away in fright, with Hagrid going after him immediately. Since Fang's name was not listed amongst the Fallen Fifty, it can be widely assumed that he survived the battle and continued to live with Hagrid in his hut afterwards.


=== 21st-century ===
During the 2008–2009 school year, he went wild after hearing the songs of uncontrolled Fwoopers in Hagrid's Hut. When a student encountered him, he showed him some teeth before passing out.


== Physical appearance ==
Fang was described as a giant boarhound with black fur.


== Personality and traits ==

Fang was a large hound who slobbered constantly. On several occasions he completely soaked Harry Potter's robes while laying his head on Harry's lap. When someone entered Hagrid's hut, he would greet them with loud, booming barks and almost always licking their faces or ears. He was very protective of Hagrid, but was a "bloody coward." Fang was a very friendly, affectionate and sociable dog, and was often very happy to see the trio whenever they came to see Hagrid and him.


== See also ==
Rubeus Hagrid's pets


== Behind the scenes ==
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Fang in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4 		 	 
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Fang and Hagrid's hut in POP! Vinyl form 		 	 
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Fang as seen in Harry Potter: Puzzles & Spells 		 	 
In the novels, Fang is said to be a boarhound, or Great Dane. In the movies, Fang is portrayed by a Neapolitan Mastiff, a very different breed, though one that was also used against boars.
The dogs who play Fang in the first two movies are Hugo, Bully, Bella, and Vito. A dog named Luigi played Fang in the second and sixth films. In the 2nd disc special feature of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Head Animal Trainer Julie Tottman shows the new dog who played Fang, and its name is Monkey, while in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, the Neapolitan Mastiff who played Fang is Uno.
In LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4, Fang is one of the several characters that can dig up Dig-Spots, including Professor Lupin (Werewolf), Mrs Norris, and Crookshanks. Without using Freeplay mode or Polyjuice Potion, Fang is playable in the fifth level of The Philosopher's Stone, "The Forbidden Forest", the fifth in The Chamber of Secrets, "Follow The Spiders", and "Dragons" as the second level in The Goblet Of Fire. Fang is unlocked at the beginning of "The Forbidden Forest", by changing from either Ron or Harry (in Story-Mode) to Fang, and then using Fang to dig underneath the cliff at the start. Fang's Character-Token will be in the tunnel.
In the video game adaptation of Harry Potter and the Order of Phoenix, Fang is only heard from outside Hagrid's cabin and shakes the whole house.
Fang's role is omitted from Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2.
Fang does make a brief appearance in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, though he's easy to miss. He can be glimpsed in the background when Hagrid tells the trio to hurry up and head back to the castle before Buckbeak is executed and Harry is reassuring him that it will be okay.
In Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery, Hagrid asks the player what he should name the dog and says he is a new puppy. The event happens in Chapter 8 of Year Two during the 1985–1986 school year. However, Fang could be found in the game in Year One as well, which was over a year earlier. It makes no sense that Hagrid would say he was a new puppy when he had had him for at least a year, or that Hagrid would have waited that long to name him.
The player can choose one of three names for Hagrid's dog, either Fang, Hagrid Junior, or Voldemort. If the player selects any other option other than Fang, Hagrid will laugh them off and pick Fang anyway. The answer decides whether the player was rewarded with Courage, Empathy or Knowledge points.


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (film)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (film)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (film) (Briefly)
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (video game) (Voice only)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (film)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (video game) (Voice only)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
Harry Potter: A Pop-Up Book
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7 (Console and PC versions)
Harry Potter Trading Card Game
Pottermore
Wizarding World
Harry Potter: The Creature Vault
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery
Harry Potter: Puzzles & Spells
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite


== Notes and references ==