Minister Gareth Greengrass was a British wizard who worked as a Senior Unspeakable in the Department of Mysteries and later Head of the Department of Mysteries at the British Ministry of Magic. 


== Biography ==


=== Early life ===
Gareth was born into the Greengrass family, one of the oldest pure-blooded families in Britain. He presumably attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry during his formative years. Upon completing his magical education, Gareth joined the British Ministry of Magic. 


=== Career ===
Gareth successfully landed a job as a research assistant and eventually worked his way up to the point where he earned a place as a Unspeakable in the Department of Mysteries. A gifted employee, he would dedicate most of his adult life to conducting confidential research into the mysteries of magic, and eventually rose to a place of seniority in the department, becoming a Senior Unspeakable.
Gareth married Aquila Greengrass and they had a daughter, Cereus Greengrass. By 2019, Aquila had died. Cereus had a blood malediction for which Gareth was desperate to find a cure. 


=== The Calamity ===
At an unknown date, Gareth joined The Unforgivable. 
By 2015, he had stolen the appearance of Kensington Millbottom and took on the persona of 'Edward Scot'. He lived a double life, being both Gareth and 'Edward' when needed, deceiving everyone. 'Edward' joined the Department of International Magical Co-operation, working up to be the Lead Liaison Minister.
Gareth joined a council that oversaw the investigation into the disappearance of Grim Fawley's wife Penelope and four other people known as the London Five. He promised Grim that he would do everything in his power to find Penelope, and that no cost would be spared. However, the council called off the investigation before she was found and recommended Grim take time off work to recover and care for his children. Grim had a grudge against Gareth's persona 'Edward Scot' and suspected he was involved in the failed London Five investigation.  
Around January of 2021, Gareth's persona 'Edward Scot' received word from the French Ministry of Magic of a large breach in the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy.  Muggle reporter, Brice Badeaux, documented Calamity activity and released his findings. He had even successfully photographed a local agent of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force in the process of returning Foundables, causing non-magical news to begin reporting a series of exposés. 'Edward' was serving the Calamity World Centre and notified the Calamity Management Team and the local SOS Task Force, to help the French Ministry.


=== Capture ===
Greengrass was later suspected to be a member of The Unforgivable, an organisation suspected of causing the Calamity. Hermione Granger slipped Greengrass Veritaserum, causing him to say he was in the Unforgivable, so he was taken into custody. However, confession under Veritaserum did not count in court, so Harry Potter began questioning Greengrass who kept claiming he was innocent.
Constance Pickering found evidence that he was involved in Ron's kidnapping. In that time, Greengrass had obtained a wand, and used the Imperius Curse to get out. He took Polyjuice Potion and transformed into 'Edward'. Hermione and Constance worked out he was going to try and escape, and Harry saw and stopped 'Edward' running away. He denied being Greengrass until the effect of the Polyjuice Potion ceased.
Greengrass wouldn't divulge the secrets of the Unforgivable until Harry vowed to find a way to save his daughter and open a case into his brother's imprisonment. He began cooperating, but only to tell Harry about himself and what he had done. When Harry took an Unbreakable Vow to help Cereus, he led Harry to a journal which contained everything he knew about the Unforgivable and the Calamity. When Harry began reading the journal, Greengrass was killed due to an Unbreakable Vow he had broken not to tell anyone about the Unforgivable. 


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Dark Arts: Greengrass was capable of casting of the Imperius Curse, one of the Unforgivable Curses, which required both magical talent and willpower to perform successfully.


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (First appearance)


== Notes and references ==