Gregory the Smarmy (fl. 1189) was a medieval British wizard and Potioneer, who invented Gregory's Unctuous Unction, a potion that makes the drinker believe whomever gave the potion is his or her best friend.


== Biography ==
After inventing Gregory's Unctuous Unction, Gregory allegedly used the potion to worm his way into King Richard's confidence, earning him a fortune. He appeared on a silver Chocolate Frog Card for his legacy.
Gregory knew Erling the Great.
A secret passage out of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, found by Fred and George Weasley on their first week of school, is located behind a statue of Gregory the Smarmy. Early in the 1991-1992 school year, Lee Jordan discovered a secret passage that Fred and George suspected was probably this one.
A statue of Gregory the Smarmy is located on the first floor corridor.
A corridor on the fifth floor of the east wing was referred as "Gregory the Smarmy’s corridor". Whether this is because it held a statue of him, or some other reason, was unclear. In early 1996, Fred and George set off a Portable Swamp there to serve as a distraction so Harry Potter could use Dolores Umbridge's fireplace to communicate with his godfather, Sirius Black.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Potions: Gregory the Smarmy was a highly accomplished and successful Potioneer, having created Gregory's Unctuous Unction in his lifetime, a potion which fooled the drinker into thinking the giver of the potion was their best friend. For this impressive achievement, he was included on a Chocolate Frog Card.


== Etymology ==
The name Gregory is derived from the Latin Gregorius, meaning "watchful, alert".
Smarmy means "excessively or unctuously flattering, ingratiating, servile".


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (First mentioned)
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (video game) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card) (Appears as statue)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card) (Appears as statue)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (video game) (Appears as statue)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (video game) (Appears as statue)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Mentioned only)


== Notes and references ==