Minister Hector Fawley was Minister for Magic from 1925 to 1939.


== Biography ==
Minister Fawley was voted in because of his marked difference to his predecessor, Lorcan McLaird — while the latter was taciturn and an unlikely politician, Fawley was ebullient and flamboyant in character.
His term in office coincided with the beginning of Gellert Grindelwald's "For the Greater Good" revolution. Fawley did not take Grindelwald's threat to the world wizarding community sufficiently seriously, and his lack of response was openly questioned. The Daily Prophet once asked in 1926, whether "Flamboyant Fawley" was doing enough.  
He was re-elected at least once, but the consequence of his lack of response to Grindelwald came in 1939, when he was forced from his office, being replaced with the more proactive Leonard Spencer-Moon.  


== Behind the scenes ==
Hector Fawley is the sitting Minister for Magic in Britain during the time setting of the films Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them and Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald.
While the "British Envoy" portrayed by Richard Clothier in Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them was speculated to be Fawley as Newt addresses him as Minister, Clothier's agency lists his role as Hector Podmore.
Hector Fawley's inability to properly respond to the threat Grindelwald posed seems to mirror real-life British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain, who gave in to Adolf Hitler by signing the Munich Agreement and announced "peace in our time" in 1938, shortly before the outbreak of World War II. Regardless of Chamberlain's other achievements, he went down in history as a bumbler.
The Fawleys (Aubrey and Julia) are characters in J. K. Rowling's novel The Casual Vacancy. In that novel, they are a rich aristocratic family and the owners of Sweetlove House, an historic manor in the outskirts of Pagford, whose ancestors were responsible for selling the nearby city of Yarvil a piece of Pagford land — one of the catalysts for the plot.


== Appearances ==
Pottermore (First mentioned)
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film) (Mentioned on newspaper)


== Notes and references ==