Hector Dagworth-Granger was a British wizard, the founder of the Most Extraordinary Society of Potioneers.


== Biography ==
He was known to understand that no such elixir has been created to control and create love (as love potions only induce powerful infatuations). Among many other leading potioneers, Hector Dagworth-Granger doubted that it was possible to create such a truly unbreakable and eternal affection.
In 1996, Horace Slughorn asked Hermione Granger if she was related to Dagworth-Granger during their first potions lesson in her sixth year. She replied that she did not believe so, since she was Muggle-born. However, Hermione's closest magical ancestors were probably Squibs and would have lost all knowledge of magic from their family. Hence, Hermione could be related to him.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Potions: Dagworth-Granger was a highly accomplished and knowledgeable potioneer, and was the founder of the Most Extraordinary Society of Potioneers, showing his expertise in the field. In particular, he had considerable knowledge on the nature of love potions and their effects.


== Etymology ==
The name "Hector" is the Latinized form of Greek ‘Εκτωρ (Hektor), which was derived from ‘εκτωρ (hektor) "holding fast", ultimately from εχω (echo) meaning "to hold, to possess". In Greek legend Hector was one of the Trojan champions who fought against the Greeks and was the brother of Prince Paris. After he killed Achilles' friend Patroclus in battle, he was himself brutally slain by Achilles, who proceeded to tie his dead body to a chariot and drag it about. Paris then in turn slew Achilles with a poisoned arrow that he shot at Achilles' only vulnerable point, his ankle.
The name "Hector" also appears Arthurian legends belonging to King Arthur's foster father. Hector has occasionally been used as a given name since the Middle Ages, probably because of the noble character of the classical hero. It was historically common in Scotland, where it was used as an Anglicised form of Eachann.


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (First mentioned)
The Tales of Beedle the Bard (First appearance)


== Notes and references ==