Iola Hitchens (née Black) was a pure-blood witch and the sister of Sirius, Phineas Nigellus, and Elladora Black. She married a Muggle man named Bob Hitchens, and was struck off the Black Family tree and disowned as a result. Her dates are unknown, but she was born after Elladora (1850).


== Behind the scenes ==
Several sources mistakenly list this character's name as "Isla Black". This seems to stem from an incorrect transcription of J.K. Rowling's handdrawn family tree by the Harry Potter Lexicon, based on observation of the original during its auction, on 20 February 2006 (and which was, for a time, the only available source online on the matter). A scan of the original document has since surfaced, having been included in the book Harry Potter Film Wizardry, a behind-the-scenes look at the making of the Harry Potter film series. The scan clarified that Iola's name had been incorrectly transcribed by the Lexicon (indeed, by that point, the name "Iola" had already appeared on the tapestry featured in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix).
Based on a statement by Horace Slughorn, Iola may have been a member of the Slytherin House. However, she attended Hogwarts in the 1860s, at a time when Slughorn was not even born yet.
However, if she was in Slytherin then she would be a rare example of a "Good Slytherin" due to her non-biased views on blood purity and subsequent marriage to a Muggle.
Iola was the second earliest known disowned person in the family. The earliest known was Eduardus Limette Black.


== Etymology ==
Iola is probably a female variant of the Ancient Greek name Iole, meaning "violet". In Greek mythology Iole was a beautiful young princess who was claimed by Heracles for a bride, but her father, King Eurytus of Oechalia, refused her hand in marriage, which seems to suit Iola Black's story of a morganatic marriage and subsequent disowning.


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) (First mentioned) (Appears on Black family tapestry)


== Notes and references ==