Professor Jakub Gorski was a wizard who was the visiting History of Magic Professor during the 2009–2010 school year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.


== Biography ==

Before the 2009–2010 school year at Hogwarts, the Dark Wizard Bly, in search of the Turner family's heirloom, bewitched Gorski with the Imperius Curse, and then transformed into his lemur Animagus form, disgusing himself as Gorski's animal assistant.
Professor Gorski began his first lesson with second-year students with a short speech and introduced himself to them. He talked about historical artefacts and assigned the students the homework of identifying a rare object or uncovering a mystery. Throughout the school year, possibly under the instruction of Bly, he met a group of students (including Lottie Turner) several times in the castle and checked out their progress of the assignment. He also visited the Hog's Head Inn in Hogsmeade and traded with a Dark Wizard, which was noticed by the students.
Gorski was later confronted by the students in the History of Magic Classroom and acted very suspiciously. He tried to explain but couldn't give up Bly's name, and enchanted the suits of armour in the classroom to attack the students under Bly's control. When Bly fled, Gorski fell down to the floor. Professor McGonagall soon came and instructed the students to return to the dormitories, before which Gorski gave them a warning not to let Bly find the artefact first.
After Bly was defeated by the students, Gorski handed Lottie a portrait of her father inside the container of the family heirloom, allowing the father and daughter to reunite.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
History of Magic: As a Hogwarts professor of this subject, Professor Gorski was very knowledgeable in the field of wizarding history.
Charms: Professor Gorski was capable of casting the General Counter-Spell effortlessly, showing he was skilled with charms.
Nonverbal magic: Professor Gorski could cast spells by simply waving his wand without saying an incantation, showing he was skilled with nonverbal magic, which was known to be difficult.


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter: Magic Awakened (First appearance)


== Notes and references ==