Jules Egwu was a witch and a cousin of Andre Egwu.


== Biography ==
She was homeschooled, instead of attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, as her family moved constantly due to her parents jobs as Magizoologists.
By the 1986–1987 school year, she had travelled around the world with her parents. She had lived in China, India and the Mediterranean, and had been to fifty-two countries including a trip to the Amazon. 
Jules also had an interest in magical creatures. She and her parents rehabilitated a baby Granian with a broken wing. She once stumbled on a patch of Cobra Lilies, barely made it out alive. She saw an Occamy grow and shrink while defending its silver eggs. Once Jules hid from a graphorn in the Austrian Alps.
As a young girl, she was very shy and uncertain around people and had difficulty making friends. This was mainly due to her family's constant movements. She considered the Demiguise her favourite magical creature as it could become invisible at will. In her shyness she believed it would be better if she could make herself permanently invisible because no one would be interested in being friends her.
However, as she got older she became more confident. This was due in large part to her interactions with her cousin Andre- seeing how comfortable he was with himself gave her the courage to be herself. 
During the 1986–1987 school year she was living in Japan while her parents were there, hoping to observe an Oni. Some time that year, she visited her cousin in Hogsmeade.
At around that time a Demiguise had somehow made its way to Hogsmeade and began stealing various sweets from the area around the village. Jules and Andre along with Andre's friends, Jacob's sibling and Penny Haywood, managed to capture the creature. Jules decided to take it with her when she returned to Japan, as it was part of the creature's natural habitat range, and ask her parents to find a suitable place to release it. 


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (First appearance)


== Notes and references ==