Laura Thorn was an English Muggle professional monster hunter and author. She wrote at least one book, Hoax and Dreams, about her searches.


== History ==
Laura Thorn lived in London and had at least one sister. A professional monster hunter, she wrote at least one book about her search for mysterious creatures, Hoax and Dreams.
She went to the Austrian Alps to investigate a Yeti sighting at the same time that the wizard Percival Shacklehorn was there hunting Graphorn. She followed tracks into Shacklehorn's tent. When something attacked her, she was forced to hide in a grandfather clock.
She ultimately emerged from the tent in the Leaky Cauldron and was responsible for setting off a Sneakoscope that had been magically mended. Mathilda Grimblehawk and her partner interviewed her as part of their investigation and her memory of the event was erased by St Mungo's healer Omar Abasi.
Later on, Laura Thorn went out to Charing Cross Road and started telling everyone about a big, grey monster. According to Omar Abasi, his Memory Charm might not have been entirely successful due to Laura Thorn's memory being refreshed by a certain smell. Confining her to the Leaky Cauldron, Mathilda Grimblehawk and her partner then looked for possible odorous objects that could be reminding her of the magical beast that tried to attack her in the tent. Omar Abasi then set up a smell test comprised of a bottle of pumpkin juice, a bottle of Mrs Skower's All-Purpose Magical Mess Remover, and a pair of Shacklehorn's socks. Laura responded to this last item, and then escaped back into Shacklehorn's tent while Abasi was busy brewing her a Calming Draught.
Mathilda Grimblehawk and her partner then briefly confronted Laura Thorn, who figured out that they were wizards and that magical creatures really existed. She was then taken to St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries, and her memory erased again, before being let go in London, mildly confused about how she had returned from the Alps.


== Behind the scenes ==
Before she introduces herself to the player, Laura's lines are identified as those of "Ruffled Stowaway". She is also repeatedly referred to as the "Monster Hunter".


== Appearances ==
Fantastic Beasts: Cases from the Wizarding World (First appearance)


== Notes and references ==