Libatius Borage was a South American wizard, widely considered "one of the world's most famous potioneers".


== Biography ==
In his youth, he attended the wizarding school of Castelobruxo in Brazil.
Among his many published works are Advanced Potion-Making, Asiatic Anti-Venoms and Have Yourself a Fiesta in a Bottle! — the first and second of which are used at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, as a textbook for N.E.W.T.-level classes, and as a reference text for O.W.L.-level classes, respectively.
Despite Borage's accomplishments, Hogwarts Potions Master Severus Snape seemed to be more adept at potion-making. During Snape's student days at Hogwarts, he added many annotations to his copy of Borage's Advanced Potion-Making, significantly improving the recipes.
In the 1980s, Borage's portrait was hung in the Hippogriff Clubhouse.  During the 1986–1987 school year, Jacob's sibling consulted with the portrait while trying to determine what was in a package destroyed by the baby Occamy, Squawk. Partly from clues that the portrait gave them, the students deduced that the package contained a copy of Borage's book "Have Yourself a Fiesta in a Bottle!", sent to the Hogwarts Hippogriff Club as a goodwill gift by their counterparts at Castelobruxo. Fortunately, the club members were eventually able to restore the book with Papyrus Reparo and sent the Castelobruxo club some Laughing Potion that they had brewed from the book's recipe in return.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Potions: Borage was a highly accomplished and skilled potioneer in his lifetime, having written several books on the subject and was considered to be one the most famous potioneers in the world.
Alchemy: Borage also had significant knowledge in the field of Alchemy, having written about the subject extensively in Advanced Potion-Making.


== Etymology ==
Libatius Borage's name probably derived from libation, a ritual offering of drink to the gods, and Borage, an edible herb believed to bestow excitement and courage in the hearts of those who consumed it.


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (First mentioned)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (film) (Name appears on book)
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (film) (Mentioned on a newspaper)
Pottermore (Mentioned only)
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
The Art of Harry Potter Mini Book of Graphic Design (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Appears in portrait(s))
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Magic Awakened (Mentioned only)


== Notes and references ==