Linfred of Stinchcombe, also known by the nickname The Potterer, was a twelfth-century wizard and pioneering potioneer, credited with inventing many medicinal potions. He was the founding patriarch of the Potter family.


== Biography ==
In the 12th century, Linfred lived in the village of Stinchcombe, Gloucestershire, where he had a reputation as an eccentric, absent-minded man. Nonetheless, his helpful nature and affability made him universally liked and his Muggle neighbours often came to him seeking remedies for their ailments. He was always able to brew these potions for them, using ingredients readily-available from his garden.
The Muggles remained unaware that Linfred's remedies were magical and thus continued thinking of him as just a strange, lovable man who enjoyed "pottering about in his garden with all his funny plants." This lead to him being given the nickname "the Potterer", which over the years was corrupted into simply "Potter."
As his neighbours did not know he was a wizard, Linfred was able to conduct experiments in peace, inventing a number of medicinal potions (including ones which later developed into Skele-Gro and Pepperup Potion). He sold these potions to fellow witches and wizards, amassing great wealth in the process.
Linfred fathered seven children. He left each of them a significant amount of gold upon his death. His eldest son, Hardwin, married Iolanthe Peverell.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Potions: Linfred was a master Potioneer and inventor in the twelfth century. He invented a number of medicinal potions that were used and manufactured long after his death.
Healing magic: Linfred was also highly accomplished in healing magic, having developed several powerful healing potions, such as Skele-Gro and the Pepperup Potion.
Herbology: He possessed considerable skills in Herbology, as he was able to grow the plants in his garden needed for ingredients in brewing potions.


== Behind the scenes ==
Linfred of Stinchcombe's life story echoes that of The Wizard and the Hopping Pot from The Tales of Beedle the Bard, and may have been the inspiration for the story.


== Appearances ==
Pottermore (First mentioned)
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Mentioned only)


== Notes and references ==