The Loch Ness Monster, or "Nessie" as it was popularly known, was the world's largest Kelpie. It inhabited the deep waters of Loch Ness in the Scottish Highlands. It was sometimes spotted by Muggles though, due to its nature and the efforts of the Office of Misinformation, no conclusive proof of its existence has been leaked. 


== Biography ==
Its favourite shape was that of a Sea serpent. Wizard observers from the International Confederation of Wizards discovered it was a Kelpie when they observed it changing into an otter on the approach of a team of Muggle investigators, then back into a Sea Serpent. The number of sightings by Muggles over the years has made it impossible to use Memory Charms to erase all record; therefore the Office of Misinformation has worked diligently to discredit any photographic evidence of "Nessie". 
These Muggle sightings of the creature are a large part of why Scotland is considered one of the most frequent national violators of Clause 73 of the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy (the clause that ensures the secrecy of magical creatures).
Rubeus Hagrid once offered the use of the lake at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry to house the creature.


== Behind the scenes ==
The Loch Ness Monster is a creature believed by some to live in Loch Ness, Scotland. Though it is most commonly identified as a plesiosaur-like creature, sea serpent depictions are not uncommon either. The reference to the Office of Misinformation discounting photographic evidence may be in reference to the "Surgeon's photograph", an alleged photo of the creature taken by Dr. Robert Kenneth Wilson in 1934. The photo was once considered plausible evidence of the Monster's existence but was long suspected to be a hoax. This theory was later confirmed by the confession of Christian Spurling, the sculptor who created the fake, before his death in 1993.
It is possible that the kelpie seen in Wonderbook: Book of Spells is intended to be the Loch Ness Monster, as it is rather large, lives in a Scottish loch, and takes the form of what appears to be a sea serpent, rather than the horse form the species generally takes.


== Appearances ==
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (First mentioned)
Daily Prophet Newsletters (Mentioned only)
Wonderbook: Book of Spells (Possible appearance)
Fantastic Beasts: Cases from the Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
Pottermore (First appearance)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Mentioned only)


== Notes and references ==