Lucius Malfoy I was a British pure-blood wizard in the 16th century. The Malfoy family was correctly rumoured to come in contact with Muggles and make a good living off of Muggle ways.
At some point during his life, he aspired for the hand of Queen Elizabeth I of England. He was unsuccessful in his attempt to woo her. Although never proven, many wizarding historians believe this upset Lucius enough to make him jinx the Queen, resulting in her well-known reluctant behaviour towards marriage. This was denied by subsequent generations of the Malfoy family, but there has never been solid evidence for either side.
His name would eventually be reused for his descendant about four centuries later.


== Etymology ==
The name Lucius may come from the Roman dictator Lucius Cornelius Sulla, who extra judiciously executed his rivals. His name could also be a reference to the Roman Emperor Lucius Domitius Ahenobarbus, also known as Nero. Lucius is a name that derives from Latin meaning "bright" or "intelligent" and is related to the name Lucifer, the first name of Satan, which may reference Lucius Malfoy being bright but evil, or just evil.
Malfoy is derived from the French mal foi or mal foy, meaning bad faith or unfaithful.
A Latin male first name. A character in Shakespeare's play Julius Caesar, Lucius is the servant of Brutus, the leader of the conspirators who plot against and assassinate Caesar. This is ironic, as Brutus is the name of one of Malfoy's descendants.


== Behind the scenes ==
In 1992, Harry Potter, speaking about Draco Malfoy, said, "Look at his family... The whole lot of them have been in Slytherin, he's always boasting about it". This indicates that Lucius was most likely a Slytherin if he attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, though it cannot be confirmed.
In 1997, a portrait of a wizard in Elizabethan garb was hung in the drawing room at Malfoy Manor; Lucius may be that wizard.


== Appearances ==
Pottermore (First mentioned)
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)


== Notes and references ==