Madam Mafalda Hopkirk (b. 19 February–20 March, in or before 1973) was a British witch and an assistant in the Improper Use of Magic Office at the Ministry of Magic. She issued notices to many of those who violated the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy or the Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery. This included Harry Potter on two occasions.
Mafalda was still working in the Ministry on 2 September, 1997. She was incapacitated and impersonated by Hermione Granger, by way of Polyjuice Potion during the trio's Infiltration of the Ministry of Magic.


== Biography ==


=== Assistant at the Ministry ===

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Mafalda Hopkirk's Ministry of Magic identity card 		 	 
By 1992, she was working in the Improper Use of Magic Office of the British Ministry of Magic. When Dobby the house-elf used a Hover Charm, it was Mafalda Hopkirk who sent a notice to Harry Potter regarding "his" illegal use of magic at 4 Privet Drive in the presence of Muggles.
She was still working in the Improper Use of Magic Office, when on 2 August, 1995, the Ministry received intelligence via The Trace that Harry Potter had once again used magic. Under the orders of Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge, she sent a notice to Harry expelling him from Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry for his use of the Patronus Charm in front of his cousin Dudley, a Muggle. Later that same evening, when cooler heads had prevailed, she sent Harry a notice withdrawing his expulsion and ordering him to attend a hearing ten days later.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Hermione (far left) disguised as Mafalda with Harry and Ron (also disguised as Ministry workers) 		 	 
On 1 August, 1997 the Ministry of Magic, having been infiltrated by the Death Eaters, was taken over in a virtually silent coup d'etat. Hopkirk continued to work for the new regime, still as an assistant in the Improper Use of Magic Office. However, it was acceptable for her to be set aside for record-keeping. A month later, when Hopkirk Apparated to work, she was ambushed by Hermione Granger and subsequently stunned and locked away. Some of her hair was pulled to use in Polyjuice Potion. Hermione took the potion and assumed the appearance of Hopkirk in order to gain entry to the Ministry. The impostor Hopkirk was used as a stenographer for the Muggle-Born Registration Commission and helped free the innocent Muggle-borns.


== Physical appearance ==
Mafalda was described as being a "wispy" witch with flyaway grey hair. She was also small in stature and wore spectacles. 


== Personality and traits ==
Given the courtesy and formality shown in her warning notices, and that Hopkirk's Polyjuice Potion was described as having a "pleasant heliotrope colour", it is presumed that she was a kind and good-natured witch.
However, she was assumed to be sent by Travers, a Death Eater with pro-pure-blood supremacy ideals, to keep record for the Muggle-Born Registration Commission. Given her personality as shown on her Polyjuice Potion's colour, it is unlikely that she was a pure-blood supremacist herself. Given that Hermione Granger disguised as her became deeply frightened of Dolores Umbridge's and Yaxley's trial on Muggle-borns, and both of them didn't suspect anything given her reaction, it can be presumed that she was forced against her own free will in aiding the Ministry of Magic under Voldemort.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Apparition: Like most accomplished adult wizards and witches, Mafalda was capable of apparating at will. She used apparition to travel to work at the British Ministry of Magic.
Charms: Mafalda was capable of conjuring a non-corporeal Patronus, a highly advanced piece of magic and a mark of superior magical skill.


== Etymology ==
"Mafalda" is the Portuguese form of Matilda. It means "strength in battle" or "mighty sword", from the Germanic macht (might; strength) and hild (battle; sword). This was the name of the wife of William the Conqueror. In Argentina, "Mafalda" is better known as the name of a comic strip character created by famed cartoonist Quino.


== Behind the scenes ==
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Hermione disguised as Mafalda in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7 		 	 
Hopkirk was voiced by Jessica Hynes in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. She was recast for Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1, instead portrayed by Sophie Thompson.
In a prop letter made for the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (that went unused in the final film), Mafalda Hopkirk is referred to as the "Commander-in-Chief" of the Improper Use of Magic Office — whereas Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows gives her position as "an assistant in the Improper Use of Magic Office".
It is possible, however, that Hopkirk was indeed head of the office in 1995, but that following the Fall of the Ministry of Magic, the Death Eaters recognised her as an effective employee, so rather than taking her life, Corban Yaxley used his newfound power invested in him to demote her in favour of putting Travers, a fellow Death Eater, in charge of the division upon his appointment to the office of Head of Magical Law Enforcement.
In the book Mafalda's hair was grey, but in the film it was brown and greying.


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (First mentioned)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) (Voice only)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (video game)
Pottermore (Mentioned only) (Polyjuiced body only)
Wizarding World (Mentioned only) (Polyjuiced body only)
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Mentioned only)


== Notes and references ==