Madam Malkin was a witch and the owner of Madam Malkin's Robes for All Occasions in Diagon Alley. She was a squat woman dressed all in mauve who was very friendly to her customers, unless anyone displayed signs of aggression in her shop.


== Biography ==

Malkin became the proprietor of Madam Malkin's Robes for All Occasions sometime before 1991. In August 1991, when Harry Potter first visited Diagon Alley with Rubeus Hagrid to purchase his school supplies for his first year at Hogwarts, Malkin greeted him kindly and found some robes to fit him. It was then, that Harry first met his long-term adversary Draco Malfoy in her shop, who was also buying his school robes.
In early 1992, Madam Malkin went to Paris for the Which Witch? fashion show, and left her shop closed with a notice outside.
In August 1993, Harry Potter returned to her shop when shopping in Diagon Alley, to purchase new school robes for the upcoming academic year, along with other needed school supplies from other shops.
In 1995, Madam Malkin had a sale in her shop, for which an advertisement was published in the Daily Prophet.
In 1996, Malkin was unsuccessfully trying to fit new robes on a particularly disgruntled Draco Malfoy, who was in the shop with his mother Narcissa Malfoy. When Harry Potter, Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger entered her shop to purchase their own robes, Draco nastily insulted Granger as a "Mudblood", much to her shock and disgust for such inflammatory language being used in her shop. Whilst the trio argued bitterly and traded insults with the Malfoys, Malkin became very anxious of the escalating tension, and even tried to tweak the robe he was trying on, but ended up accidentally pinching him with her needles. Malfoy and his mother then left the shop in contempt, with Narcissa Malfoy disdainfully telling her she would rather do business with rival tailors Twilfitt and Tattings, because of the "scum" that she served, leaving Malkin highly insulted. She picked up all the robes which had fallen to the floor, cleaned them with a wave of her wand, and fitted and sold robes to the trio. She seemed to be relieved when everyone had left, as it meant no more confrontation in her shop.
Madam Malkin survived the Second Wizarding War and was still running her shop by 2008. Before 1 September that year, she was known to have helped a student dress up and get their robes. 


== Physical appearance ==
Madam Malkin was described as being a squat, smiling witch who was dressed in mauve clothing. 


== Personality and traits ==

Madam Malkin was generally friendly, helpful and personable towards her customers, as well as fair; most notably, she scolded both Draco Malfoy for using the highly insulting term 'Mudblood' in her presence despite him being a wealthy customer, and Harry Potter and Ron Weasley for drawing their wands in response. However, she was not above being irritated or offended, as she was when Narcissa Malfoy implied her shop was of lower class for catering to Muggle-borns, and could become very easily distracted if in this mood. She was also shown to care for the welfare of her customers, as she was greeted Harry Potter generously into her shop in 1991 and was very willing with their purchases, and even reminded Draco to be careful when wandering around Diagon Alley.


== Magical abilities and skills ==

Charms: Malkin could successfully use a cleaning charm which removed dust from objects like a Vacuum cleaner. Malkin was capable of conjuring at least a non-corporeal Patronus, an incredibly advanced and powerful piece of magic.
Nonverbal magic: Malkin was able to instantly clean up dust which had gathered on several robes which had fallen on the floor merely by running the tip of her wand across them in 1996, meaning she could cast spells without speaking their incantations aloud, which is highly advanced magic.
Business: Malkin was evidently an accomplished and successful businesswoman who managed her own shop Madam Malkin's Robes for All Occasions for many years, and presumably earned a comfortable living from her profits.


== Possessions ==
Wand: Madam Malkin owned a wand, of unknown length, wood and core materials.
Magical tape measure: Madam Malkin owned a measuring device capable of magically moving on its own accord, in order to measure the necessary clothing lengths of her customers.
Madam Malkin's Robes for All Occasions: Madam Malkin was the owner of her own shop in Diagon Alley, which sold dress robes, travelling cloaks and even Invisibility Cloaks for wizards and witches, along with school uniforms for Hogwarts students.
Self-playing harp: Madam Malkin owned an enchanted harp, that could play by itself.


== Etymology ==
The name "Malkin" may be derived from "Malkin Tower" which was a key element in the Pendle witches trial.
A malkin is also an old name for a scarecrow, dressed to frighten away birds. Malkin-trash was someone who was poorly or frighteningly dressed.
It could also be of early medieval English origin, deriving from a female given name first recorded as "Malkyn" in 1297, a diminutive form of "Malle", itself a nickname form of "Mary". To Malle has been added the diminutive suffix "kyn or kin", meaning "close relative of". "Mary" was an extremely popular medieval female given name, being the claimed name of the mother of Christ in the New Testament. The original name is thought to have been derived from the Aramaic "Maryan", translating as the "wished-for-child", but others claim that it means "the star of the sea".


== Behind the scenes ==
Paula Arundell, the actress portraying Hermione Granger in the Melbourne Princess Theatre production of Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, also portrayed Madam Malkin, voicing her when the cast of Harry Potter and the Cursed Child read aloud Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, Chapter 5 (Diagon Alley) together, organised by Bloomsbury Publishing for the 2021 Harry Potter Book Night.
Graymalkin was the name of a cat that belonged to one of the Three Witches (the Weird Sisters) in William Shakespeare's Macbeth.


== Appearances ==

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Madam Malkin in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4 		 	 
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (film) (Name seen on sign)
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (video game) (GBC version only)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (film) (Name seen on sign)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game) (Name seen on sign)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (film) (Name seen on sign)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (Name seen on sign)
Harry Potter Trading Card Game
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
Pottermore (Mentioned only)
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Magic Awakened


== Notes and references ==