Madam Miriam Strout was a British witch and Healer on the Janus Thickey Ward at St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries. She was described to be a motherly-looking healer.


== Biography ==


=== 1990–1991 school year ===
During this school year at Hogwarts, Strout helped seventh-year students visiting St Mungo's to complete assignments as part of their work experience at the hospital.


=== 1995 ===

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Miriam Strout attending to her patients in the Janus Thickey Ward in Christmas 1995 		 	 
Strout was responsible for looking after long-term patients such as Agnes, Gilderoy Lockhart, and Alice and Frank Longbottom. When Harry Potter, Hermione Granger, Ron and Ginny Weasley came up to the Janus Thickey Ward by accident, she led them in, mistaking them wanting to visit Lockhart, who had managed to sneak out of his room for a while.
She was also looking after Broderick Bode when he was killed by a Devil's Snare plant sent to him by the Death Eater Walden Macnair, disguised at the time as an elderly wizard. Although St Mungo's has very strict regulations of the gifts allowed into the hospital, Strout mistook the Devil Snare to be a harmless Flitterbloom and thought the improving Bode could take care of it, a dreadful mistake which cost him his life. She was suspended on full pay whilst the matter was investigated and was unavailable for comments for the Daily Prophet. It is unknown if Strout was eventually fired or reinstated in her position.


== Personality and traits ==

Strout was evidently a very caring and kind-hearted witch, given her job as a Healer, meaning she specialised in tending to the both the physically and mentally unwell, in the Janus Thickey Ward. She was very mothering and protective of her vulnerable patients, such as Gilderoy Lockhart, who she even seemed to feel much compassion for, since he received no visitors. However, she was somewhat naive and inattentive in her professional duties, as she foolishly failed to identify a lethal Devil's Snare plant that had been brought into her hospital ward (mistaking it for a harmless Flitterbloom), a thoughtless mistake which resulted in her patient Broderick Bode being killed by the plant, and her being suspended from her position.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Healing magic: As a professional Healer working at St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries, Strout was highly proficient in the art of medical magic. She worked in the Janus Thickey Ward, meaning she was very able in looking after people who had suffered permanent spell damage. In addition, in order to have trained as a Healer, she would have needed N.E.W.T.s in Charms, Potions, Herbology, Transfiguration and Defence Against the Dark Arts, all at least "Exceeds Expectations" or "Outstanding" level. Despite Herbology being a requirement, she failed to identify a cutting of Devil's Snare, mistaking it for a harmless Flitterbloom, costing Bode his life.
Charms: Strout was highly capable in charm-work, given how a N.E.W.T. is required in Charms for all Healers; furthermore, she was capable of unlocking the locked door to the Janus Thickey Ward with the Unlocking Charm, as well as fixing a Fancy hippogriff calendar to the wall with her wand for Broderick Bode.
Potions: Strout was knowledgeable of various healing potions, and was skilled in brewing them at St Mungo's in the Alchemy Room in order to heal her patients. Potions was also a required qualification for Healers like Strout.
Defence Against the Dark Arts: As a Healer, she would have needed an O.W.L. in this subject at either "Exceeds Expectations" or "Outstanding". Strout was able to heal Jacob of life-threatening burns sustained from the powerful dark charm Protego Diabolica, showing she was skilled with dealing with medical conditions caused by the Dark Arts.


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (First appearance)
Pottermore
Wizarding World
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery


== Notes and references ==