Mnemone Radford (1562–1649) was a British witch, who first developed Memory Modifying Charms. She became the first British Ministry of Magic Obliviator, due to her skill and expertise with casting the charm.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Spell creation: Radford had succeeded in the incredibly difficult and complex magical art of inventing new spells, as she successfully invented Memory-Modifying Charms, which were particularly useful and practical charms.
Charms: Radford was highly accomplished with charm-work, given how she successfully invented Memory-Modifying Charms and was also skilled with the casting of them, given how she was the first Obliviator who worked for the British Ministry of Magic.


== Behind the scenes ==
The text on Mnemone Radford's Wizard of the Month entry credits her with the invention of "Memory Modifying Charms". It is therefore possible that she invented both the Memory Charm and the spell that creates false memories, although the specifics of which exact spells she invented have never been confirmed outright.
There are a few issues with this character's chronology. Many years after her first canonical mention in J. K. Rowling's official site,  Pottermore went on to reveal that the Ministry of Magic was only formally established in 1707, which is 58 years after Mnemone Radford died, so it is uncertain exactly how she could have worked for the Ministry. Even if one considers that the phrase "Ministry of Magic" used on Wizard of the Month is an over-simplification and refers to its predecessor, the Wizards' Council, it is still left unexplained what exactly would an Obliviator do the days before the establishment of the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy in 1692.


== Etymology ==
Mnemone Radford is described as inventing the Memory Modifying Charm. Mnemosyne was an ancient Greek goddess of memory. Her daughter, Mneme was the muse of memory.


== Appearances ==

J. K. Rowling's official site (First appearance)


== Notes and references ==