Officer Myra Curio was a British witch who worked for the British Ministry of Magic in London as an expert on examining and dealing with Muggle artefacts. In this capacity, she assisted the Ministry of Magic's Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures in solving cases related to magical beasts, and later transferred to the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, where she became an Officer in the Misuse of Muggle Artefacts Office. In this capacity, she also assisted members the Statute of Secrecy Task Force tackling The Calamity.


== Biography ==
Born into a wizarding family that resided somewhere in the British Isles, she grew up in a magical household. During her formative years, she received her magical education, presumably by attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, like most magical children in their wizarding community. She excelled in Muggle Studies.
Sometime after her seventeenth birthday, Myra joined the Ministry of Magic in London, and eventually began working for the Muggle Liaison Office in the Department of Magical Accidents and Catastrophes. A respected authority on the subject of Muggle Relations and the Muggle world in general, Myra was known to have been called upon to lend her expertise to other Ministry authorities, such as the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures, where she alongside Sage Bragnam, Gethsemane Prickle and Omar Abasi during investigations relating to creature-related incidents. As such, Myra would sometimes help examine Muggle objects found by the Beast Division.
Presumably inspired to pursue a career that was more "hands-on" after having assisted of Mathilda Grimblehawk and her partner with their field work, she eventually transferred to the Department of Magical Law Enforcement and became a Magical Law Enforcement Officer, working for the Misuse of Muggle Artefacts Office.
Following the outbreak of the Calamity, she became part of the Ministry committee dedicated to gaining further insight into the origin and nature of the phenomenon. In due time, she began working with members of the then recently established Statute of Secrecy Task Force pursuing a career as an Auror to improve their spell casting.


== Personality and traits ==
An avid Muggle enthusiast who thoroughly enjoyed her job and the opportunity to work with other people, Myra was a friendly, well-meaning individual who were always happy to help out her colleagues, being friendly with people like Mathilda Grimblehawk, and her partner. While mild-mannered, she was not timid, being sufficiently confident in her own abilities to want to pursue a job within magical law enforcement later on in her career, proving her resolve.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
A witch capable of using an array of sophisticated spell-work when she was required to do so, Myra had to deal with a wide variety of jinxes, hexes and curses placed on Muggle artefacts after she switched positions.

Muggle Studies: A well-respected Muggle expert at the Ministry, she was knowledgeable on the subject of Muggle Studies and often called upon to advice co-workers who came across Muggle objects at work.
Potions: Myra was very good at potion-making; occasionally hosting potion-making workshops. On one such event, she combined her skills as a potioneer with her speciality by successfully adapting Muggle cooking techniques to the potion-making process. Notably, she was able to make good use of sous vide, a method wherein food was cooked in a water bath for longer than usual cooking times at a precisely regulated temperature, by bottling potion-ingredients and immersing them in boiling water to increase their effect, much to the benefit of the SOS Task Force members attending one such event.
Charms: She was proficient with the casting of charms, to the point where she was able to assist candidates for the Auror Office working for the SOS Task Force with their charms-work in preparation for tackling the Calamity.
Magical Law knowledge: As an Officer in the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, Myra was knowledgeable on the subject of magical laws and regulations, such as the Registry of Proscribed Charmable Objects and the Muggle Protection Act drafted by Arthur Weasley and which artefacts were listed on the Registry of Proscribed Charmable Objects.
Fencing: Myra Curio had an interest in the Muggle sport of fencing and was capable of using the diagrams and practical exercises associated with the sport to make her movements more focused and purposeful while casting spells, which she would eventually go on and share with a Calamity Investigator working for the Statute of Secrecy Task Force by advicing them to read it too.
Cooking: Myra was apparently a very capable cook, who could cook a wide variety of different dishes.


== Appearances ==
Fantastic Beasts: Cases from the Wizarding World (First appearance)
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite


== Notes and references ==