Niko Nenad (d. 1809) was a Romanian wizard who played as a Beater for the Romanian National Quidditch team in the early 19th century. He was described as an extremely volatile and unstable man, with a habit of injuring himself.


== Biography ==
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Niko Nenad's foot set alight 		 	 
Nenad was an extremely volatile and unstable man. During the quarter- and semi-finals of the 1809 Quidditch World Cup, the other players on the Romanian team witnessed him knock himself over the head with his own broom, and set his feet on fire out of frustration. Ivan Popa had to intervene twice when he tried to strangle two different referees. His teammates became so concerned with his behaviour that they tried to convince the team's manager to replace him with another player for the final — which was to be played between Romania and New Spain on the West Siberian Plain — but he chose not to listen.
Prior to the final, Nenad jinxed the whole of the forest adjacent to the pitch, handsomely paying local Siberian Dark Wizards to help him carry out the job, and possibly also calling upon less-principled fans. Two hours into the game, when New Spain were ahead on points and Romania were exhausted, Nenad deliberately sent a Bludger flying into the forest. The trees instantly sprang to life and proceeded to attack the stadium, resulting in several injuries and deaths. Nenad was killed early in the carnage by a "particularly violent" spruce.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Flying: Nenad played as Beater in his lifetime for the Romanian National Quidditch team, showing he was an accomplished flyer and Quidditch player, despite his extremely violent behaviour displayed on the pitch.
Charms: Nenad had some skills in the casting of charms, as he was able to set his feet alight in a furious temper with the Fire-Making Spell.
Dark Arts: Nenad was capable of animating an entire forest with a jinx, with the help of Siberian Dark Wizards, showing he was skilled with dark magic and with the casting of Dark charm.


== Appearances ==
Pottermore (First mentioned)


== Notes and references ==