Sir Patrick Delaney-Podmore was a wizard who later became a headless ghost after his death. He was playful and charismatic, and often liked to show off in front of other ghosts. He may have been related to British Ministry of Magic employee Hector Podmore and Order of the Phoenix member Sturgis Podmore.


== Biography ==
Little is known about Sir Patrick's life other than that he died by beheading.
Sir Patrick was in charge of the Headless Hunt. He doesn't make any exceptions to the rules — a ghost must be completely headless to join. This came as a terrible blow to the ego of Nearly Headless Nick, who was denied entrance to the Headless Hunt because his head is still attached to his body (albeit barely). Because of this rejection, Sir Nicholas mockingly called him Sir Properly-Decapitated Podmore.
Sir Patrick appeared at Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington's five-hundredth Deathday Party in 1992 where he stole much of Sir Nicholas' thunder by cracking jokes and making light of the sombre atmosphere.
The Headless Hunt fought in the Battle of Hogwarts. Therefore, Sir Patrick most likely defended the school the best as a ghost could.


== Etymology ==
The name "Patrick" comes from the Latin name Patricius, which meant "nobleman". This name was adopted in the 5th-century by Saint Patrick, whose birth name was Sucat. He was a Romanized Briton who was captured and enslaved in his youth by Irish raiders. After six years of servitude he escaped home, but he eventually became a bishop and went back to Ireland as a missionary. He is traditionally credited with Christianizing the island, and is regarded as Ireland's patron saint.


== Behind the scenes ==
Sir Patrick Delaney-Podmore was featured on a piece of conceptual art, by Dermot Power, for the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets. He was not, however, featured in the actual film.


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (film) (Concept art only)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
Pottermore (Mentioned only)


== Notes and references ==