Percival Shacklehorn was a British wizard and self-professed adventurer. In actuality, he was an unscrupulous poacher, he was at one point fined by the Ministry of Magic for illegally hunting a Graphorn, a magical creature that was endangered during the 1920s.


== Biography ==
He went to the Austrian Alps in the hopes of capturing a Graphorn. While there, a Mountain Troll found its way into his magically-expanded tent, knocking him unconscious in the process.
The creature broke a bottle of Invisibility Potion that Shacklehorn, a competent potioneer, had brewed to aid him in hunting the Graphorn. This rendered the beast invisible when Laura Thorn, a Muggle monster hunter investigating a Yeti sighting, chanced into Shacklehorn's tent (on which he had failed to place Muggle-Repelling Charms). The tent was magically transported back to the Leaky Cauldron in London, taking its three, unlikely occupants with it.
Shacklehorn initially claimed he was in the Alps to view Graphorns in their natural habitat when questioned by Mathilda Grimblehawk and her partner. However, upon further interrogation, he admitted that he had been trying to catch one. He was fined by the Ministry of Magic for illegally hunting a magical creature. Grimblehawk and her partner were able to capture the troll.
Shacklehorn was, apparently, a supporter of Puddlemere United, as he kept a poster of that Quidditch team in his tent.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Potions: Shacklehorn was proficient in the magical art and science of potion-making, having successfully brewed a batch of the Invisibility potion for his travels. 


== Possessions ==
Socks: Shacklehorn owned a pair of socks which were said to have had an unpleasant and sweaty odour.
Suitcase: Shacklehorn owned a suitcase, which he took with him on his travels to contain his possessions and clothing.
Tent: Shacklehorn owned a tent, which was charmed to be much larger on the inside than it appeared to be on the outside. Its interior included columns, a staircase, multiple armchairs, wooden tables, and a Grandfather clock.
Net: Shacklehorn owned a net which he attempted to use to capture a Graphorn.


== Behind the scenes ==
Before he introduces himself to the player, Shacklehorn is referred to as the "Camping Wizard".


== Appearances ==
Fantastic Beasts: Cases from the Wizarding World (First appearance)


== Notes and references ==