Phineas Black was a pure-blood wizard, the second eldest son of Phineas Nigellus Black and his wife Ursula Flint and brother of Cygnus, Sirius, Belvina and Arcturus. He was disowned for supporting Muggle rights and removed from the Black family tree.
It is unknown whether Phineas ever sired children, but if he did, his patrilineal descendants must have died out by 1996 because his great-great-nephew Sirius was the last of the Blacks.


== Behind the scenes ==
Based on a statement by Horace Slughorn, Phineas may have been a member of the Slytherin House. However, Phineas would have attended in the 1880s or the 1890s, when Slughorn was not Potions teacher.
Phineas was named after his father, but ironically, this son became Phineas Nigellus's greatest shame.
On the Black family tree tapestry from the film Phineas is depicted as a red hat with a black hole. His name is misspelled Phineus on the tapestry, and so is the name of his father. This may be because the names are also incorrectly spelled on a tree drawn by J. K. Rowling. The hand drawn family tree was given to Book Aid International.
Based on his estimated birth year(s), Phineas would have attended Hogwarts around the same time as Albus Dumbledore, the latter of whom was born in 1881. While Dumbledore was Sorted into Gryffindor, Phineas was likely Sorted into Slytherin. Both Phineas and Dumbledore also would have attended Hogwarts while Phineas's father, Phineas Nigellus Black, was likely the Headmaster. Given Phineas's support of Muggle rights, a belief he shared with Dumbledore, it is possible that Phineas and Dumbledore may have been acquaintances or friends. This could also explain Dumbledore's seeming fondness for the portrait of Phineas Nigellus Black in the books, as Dumbledore may have had a friendly relationship with his son.


== Etymology ==
Phinehas was the grandson of Aaron in the Bible. He stopped a plague by killing two of the sinners who caused it. His name is sometimes spelled as Phineas.


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) (Appears on Black family tapestry)


== Notes and references ==