Dame Phyllida Spore was a witch who lived during the 15th century. A celebrated Herbologist, she was the author of the textbook One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi and also served as Headmistress of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.


== Biography ==
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Phyllida Spore 		 	 
Phyllida Spore lived in the 15th century. She studied Herbology, writing One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi, a textbook that was still used at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in the 1990s. 
Spore became the Headmistress of Hogwarts during her lifetime. At some point, she also earned the title "Dame," the female equivalent of the honour of knighthood in Great Britain.
Professor Spore died sometime in or before 1995. Two portraits of her hung at Hogwarts: one painted in 1408 depicted a middle aged woman, and another, hung in the Headmaster's office, depicted her as a younger witch with long dark hair sitting in a chair with skull-shaped finials.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Herbology: Phyllida was a very skilled and knowledgeable Herbologist, having thorough knowledge of One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi and having written several books about the subject.
Healing magic: One of her books (Healing at Home with Herbs) specialised on the healing properties of such herbs, showing she also had good knowledge of healing magic.


== Behind the scenes ==
Phyllida's portrait at the Headmaster's office appears only in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. In the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets a large painting of Antonia Creaseworthy occupies that space, and in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix and the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince the portrait of Phineas Nigellus Black is hung there.
The portrait of Spore that is featured in Goblet of Fire was based on an 1858 portrait of poet Elizabeth Barrett Browning (1806–1861), by Michele Gordigiani.


== Etymology ==
Her first name is from Greek for "leaf" or "plant." A spore is a body produced by fungi, algae and non-flowering plants that is very protective and resistant to drought.


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (First mentioned)
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (film) (Appears in portrait(s))
Pottermore (Mentioned only)
The Wizarding World of Harry Potter (Appears in portrait(s))
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Mentioned only)
The Art of Harry Potter Mini Book of Graphic Design (Appears in portrait(s))
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (Mentioned only)


== Notes and references ==