Pollux Black (1912 – 1990) was a pure-blood wizard, the eldest child of Cygnus Black II and Violetta Bulstrode, the brother of Cassiopeia Black, Marius Black, and Dorea Black, the husband of Irma Crabbe, the father of Walburga Black, Alphard Black, and Cygnus Black III, the grandfather of Sirius Black, Regulus Black, Bellatrix Lestrange, Andromeda Tonks, and Narcissa Malfoy, the great-grandfather of Draco Malfoy, Nymphadora Tonks and Delphini, and the great-great-grandfather of Teddy Lupin and Scorpius Malfoy.


== Etymology ==
Like many members of the Black family, the name Pollux comes from a star. It is the brightest star in the constellation Gemini. The name refers to Castor and Pollux, the twin sons of Zeus and Leda in Greek mythology. The name is traditionally thought to mean "much wine", since astrologers associate Pollux with prosperity and celebration with wine. Pollux's sister Cassiopeia was named after a constellation.


== Behind the scenes ==
On the Black Family Tree, it states that Pollux and (possibly) Irma were thirteen years old when they had their first child, Walburga. Interestingly enough on the Black Family Tree, his youngest son Cygnus Black III had his first child at the age of 13. However these are most likely the numerous mathematical mistakes made by J. K. Rowling (who frequently admits that maths is not her strong suit). Then again, it's possible Rowling is discreetly showing us that teenage pregnancy is as common in the Wizarding world as it is in the Muggle world.
Based on a statement by Horace Slughorn, Pollux may have been a member of the Slytherin House. This is likely due to most of the Black family (with the exception of Sirius Black) being in the aforementioned House. However, he attended Hogwarts c. 1923 – 1930, which slightly predates Slughorn's fifty-year tenure from around 1931 – 1981. However, depending when in 1912 he was born, he could have been one of Slughorns first ever students as Head of Slytherin, with Pollux being in his final year.
Pollux named his last son (Cygnus Black III) in honour of his father (Cygnus Black II).
At the beginning of the tree Licorus Black is depicted with a green hat, who is very similar to Pollux, but Pollux on the image is wearing a red hat.
It remains unknown what Pollux felt about the Death Eaters and the rise of Lord Voldemort within Britain. Two of his grandchildren would become Death Eaters and other members of his extended family did join or support them which implies that Pollux may have encouraged them to embrace their blood purity. When he died in 1990, his grandchildren Sirius and Bellatrix were both serving life sentences in Azkaban for crimes they were accused of committing on the behalf of the Death Eaters though Sirius would later be revealed to be innocent.


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (film) (Appears on Black family tapestry)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (video game) (Mentioned as Walburga Black's father)


== Notes and references ==