This Dark witch was a member of Lord Voldemort's Death Eaters during the Second Wizarding War.


== Biography ==
At some point in her life, this witch became learned in the Dark Arts and joined the Death Eaters, becoming a loyal follower and servant of Lord Voldemort. It is likely that she fought during the First Wizarding War, as most of her fellow Death Eaters did so.
She was seen attending the meeting at Malfoy Manor in 1997, in which Voldemort and the Death Eaters discussed the most efficient way of killing Harry Potter.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			The female Death Eater listening to Voldemort's speech after disarming George Weasley 		 	 
Much later on 2 May 1998, she fought in the final battle of the Second War, the Battle of Hogwarts alongside her fellows and Voldemort himself. During the battle she duelled George Weasley and possibly others, before Voldemort ordered a temporary ceasefire. She was seen with the other Death Eaters in the Forbidden Forest where she witnessed Voldemort attempting to kill Harry Potter with a Killing Curse.
Instead of abandoning the battle like the Malfoys or some other Death Eaters, she was fighting loyal to Voldemort alongside several members of the Death Eaters, showing her to have been one of the more loyal Death Eaters and possibly one of the more sadistic ones. She was was last seen fighting against Poppy Pomfrey during the Skirmish at the Great Hall, moments before Molly Weasley and Bellatrix Lestrange's duel started. Given how she fell down after Pomfrey lunged forward at her, she lost the duel to her opponent.
After Voldemort's defeat and death, she might have been killed in battle, or arrested, tried and imprisoned in Azkaban for her crimes as a Death Eater.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Dark Arts: Being a Death Eater, this witch would have been accomplished with dark magic, likely including the casting of the Unforgivable Curses.
Duelling: This witch fought in the Battle of Hogwarts, being one of the last Death Eaters fighting before Voldemort's defeat. During the battle she was able to defeat George Weasley and fought against Poppy Pomfrey, though she was unable to defeat the matron.
Charms: She has some skill in the field of charms, as seen by her successful use of the Disarming Charm against George Weasley.


== Behind the scenes ==
This individual was played by British actress Penelope McGhie.
This Death Eater is only seen in the first and second film adaptations of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, during which she is shown at the meeting at Malfoy Manor and battle of Hogwarts during which she fights against the Order of the Phoenix and the staff of Hogwarts in the battle for the school.
The Death Eater is one of only five known female Death Eaters.


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2


== Notes and references ==