King Ragnuk the First (fl. 11th century) was the king of the goblins during the lifetime of Godric Gryffindor. He was the maker of the famous Sword of Gryffindor.


== Biography ==
As the king of the goblins was also their finest silversmith, Ragnuk was commissioned by Gryffindor to forge a sword of pure goblin's silver, with rubies set into the hilt. By the time Ragnuk had finished the sword, however, he liked it so much that he sought to steal it back from Gryffindor. He sent a group of his subjects to retrieve the sword, but they were all fought off by Gryffindor, who was a skilled duellist. Gryffindor bewitched the goblins to return to Ragnuk and inform him that, if he tried such a thing again, Gryffindor would use the sword to kill him and all his subjects.
Ragnuk made no further attempt to take the sword, however, a legend persisted in the goblin community that Gryffindor had stolen the sword, a myth perpetrated by the fact that goblins consider passing goblin-made possessions onto others without further payment to the maker, as Gryffindor would go on to do, as theft. In fact, this myth was so prevalent in the goblin community, that it was the cause for one of the bloody Goblin Rebellions in the 17th and 18th centuries, around six-hundred years after the Sword was fashioned.


=== Post-mortem ===
After his death, Ragnuk was buried in a crypt in the graveyard behind St Jerome's Church, in Godric's Hollow. As he died holding a grudge against Godric Gryffindor, Ragnuk's embittered ghost remained haunting the crypt and expecting the sword to be returned to him. The crypt could only be opened with the passphrase "pede poena claudo" (literally translated from Latin, "punishment comes limping", meaning retribution comes slowly but surely); driven by revenge, Ragnuk's spirit would emerge from the crypt to curse those who were searching for the sword — and, as a lure, the crypt displayed Gryffindor's coat of arms in pride of place.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Ragnuk's spirit cursing Merula Snyde 		 	 
Just before Hallowe'en in 1986, Merula Snyde — following the footsteps of many of her ancestors over the centuries — attempted to determine the location of the Sword of Gryffindor and claim it as her own, using an old family clue to go "back to the source".
Merula thought that the sword might have been buried with Godric Gryffindor and assumed his remains rested at Godric's Hollow. She tried to open the crypt marked with the crest of Gryffindor, thereby provoking Ragnuk's wrath. Ragnuk cursed her, depriving her of her sight. Jacob's sibling quickly took her to Bathilda Bagshot's house nearby to see if she could help. They learned that goblins used a special kind of wandless magic, and the only one who could break the curse was Ragnuk himself. Back at the crypt, Jacob's sibling was able to convince Ragnuk that by letting others seek his sword, his legacy would live on. Ragnuk agreed to lift the curse from Merula and everyone who had came before her, before returning to his crypt.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Goblin magic: Being a Goblin, Ragnuk was capable of performing magic which was both wandless and powerful. He could still perform it after his death as a ghost, and used it to curse Merula Snyde, blinding her.
Dark Arts: Ragnuk was capable of cursing Merula Snyde with a powerful unidentified curse which completely blinded her, that only he could lift.


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (Mentioned only)
J. K. Rowling's official site (First mentioned)
Pottermore (Mentioned only)
Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (First appearance) (Appears as a ghost or a spirit)


== Notes and references ==