Reginald "Reg" Cattermole (b. sun in Libra, moon in Virgo) was a British wizard employed at the Ministry of Magic in the Magical Maintenance Department. He was married to Mary, and the couple had three children, Maisie, Ellie, and Alfred. He lived at 27 Chislehurst Gardens, Great Tolling, Evesham with his wife and children.


== Biography ==


=== Early Life ===
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Reginald, Jacob's sibling and Ben Copper observing the cursed enchanted windows 		 	 
Presumably educated at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry during his formative years like most magical children, while little is known about Reginald's early life, at some point following his seventeenth birthday, he joined the British Ministry of Magic as part of the Magical Maintenance Department. In this position, he took part in the maintenance of the Ministry headquarters, which included mopping the floors. Absent-minded to a fault and typically content minding his own business, Reginald was not above admitting that he often found himself unaware of what was going on at the Ministry at large.
During the 1990–1991 school year, Reginald and his colleagues became aware of how the enchanted windows at the Ministry was displaying nothing but hurricane, a condition that had not been imposed on them since his Department were angling for a pay rise sometime earlier. Realising something must have gone awry with the Weather-Modifying Charms they had been treated with, Reginald, along with at least some of his colleagues, went to the the Ministry All-Purpose Room where the "master window" was located to try and rectify the situation, to no avail. Having tried every spell they could think of to undo the storm, in the end, only Reginald was left once the others had given up. As he stood contemplating the windows in question, two visiting students joined him and, examining the enchanted windows themselves, was able to ascertain that the windows had been cursed; explaining why their conventional counter-spells did not work on them. This discovery, however, was not sufficient to discover the identity of the culprit.


=== Infiltration of the Ministry ===

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Ron (far right) disguised as Reginald Cattermole with Hermione and Harry (also disguised as Ministry workers) 		 	 
On 2 September, 1997, Reginald headed for the Ministry not just for work, but for his Muggle-born wife Mary Cattermole who was to be tried by the Muggle-Born Registration Commission, as the Ministry had been taken over by Death Eaters and Muggle-borns were being persecuted. Outside, Reginald met Mafalda Hopkirk, who was actually Hermione Granger disguised by use of Polyjuice Potion.
She gave him a Puking Pastille, and when he started to vomit, she took some of his hair. Reginald still tried hard to get into the Ministry, desperate to be by his wife's side, despite repeatedly vomiting and being unable to walk straight, but Hermione advised him to go to St Mungo's. After being unable to stand any longer, he finally Disapparated.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Reginald (Ron in disguise with Polyjuice Potion) exiting the lift to deal with the raining in Yaxley's office 		 	 
This was all part of Hermione Granger, Harry Potter, and Ron Weasley's plan to access the Ministry undercover. Hermione transformed into Mafalda Hopkirk, Ron used Reginald's hair and Polyjuice Potion to take on his form, and after Harry took on the form of Albert Runcorn, the three headed into the Ministry.
Reginald returned to the Ministry, pale but no longer ill, just in time to witness Ron, Harry, and Hermione assisting in the escape of Muggle-borns who had been detained by the Muggle-Born Registration Commission, including his wife. Harry advised them to take their children and leave the country while Lord Voldemort was still in power.


=== Later life ===
It is unknown if Reginald and Mary took Harry's advice, or what happened to them after the Second Wizarding War ended. However, Ron was dubious they escaped as he got the impression Reginald was not quick-witted when he impersonated him.


== Physical description ==
Reginald was described as being a small, "ferretty" individual. 


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Apparition: Like most accomplished adult wizards, Reginald was capable of apparating at will.
Charms: Reginald was capable of producing a non-corporeal Patronus, a highly advanced and powerful protective charm.


== Behind the scenes ==
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Ron Weasley as Reg in LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7 		 	 
In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1, Reginald Cattermole was played by Welsh actor Steffan Rhodri.
In Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1, his physical appearance differs to that of the book. The book says that he is small and ferretty whereas in the film he is rather tall (even taller than Albert Runcorn).
Cattermole only appeared three times as himself in the film: once during Pius Thicknesse's speech, once lying on the floor unconscious after the trio stun him, and once when he shows up as the trio's leaving the Ministry.


== Etymology ==
"Reginald" is from Reginaldus, which is a Latinized form of Reynold. It is also a cognate with the Old Norse Rögnvaldr, from which the name Ronald is derived.


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (video game)
Pottermore (Mentioned only) (Polyjuiced body only)
Wizarding World (Mentioned only) (Polyjuiced body only)
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
LEGO Dimensions (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery


== Notes and references ==