Plumpton on the English National Quidditch team 		 	 
Roderick Plumpton (1889-1987) was an English wizard who was the Seeker for the Tutshill Tornados Quidditch team during the early 1900s. He invented the Plumpton Pass during a match against the Caerphilly Catapults in 1921, where he caught the Snitch after three and a half seconds, setting the British record for the fastest capture of the Snitch during a game.
Plumpton was also accomplished in the arts, having painted the Witch and Wizard Couple, a painting of a medieval couple, currently hanging at Hogwarts Castle.


== Biography ==
Plumpton led the Tornados to five consecutive League Cups, and played Seeker for the English National Quidditch team twenty-two times. While critics allege his 'Plumpton Pass' was an accident, and the Snitch had merely flown up his sleeve, Plumpton insisted until his death that he meant to do it.
At some point before he died, he signed a souvenir programme, which later made its way into the hands of Sage Bragnam.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Flying: Plumpton was a highly accomplished and proficient broomstick flyer, having played as Seeker for the Tutshill Tornados and the English National Quidditch team. He famously caught the Golden Snitch three and a half-seconds into a Quidditch, setting a new record and establishing himself as a legend in the sport's history.
Artist: Plumpton was also very talented in the visual arts, having painted a Witch and Wizard Couple portrait which hung in Hogwarts Castle.


== Etymology ==
The name "Roderick" means "famous power" from the Germanic elements hrod "fame" and ric "power". This name was in use among the Visigoths; it was borne by their last king (also known as Rodrigo), who died fighting the Muslim invaders of Spain in the 8th century. It also had cognates in Old Norse and West Germanic, and it was introduced to England by Scandinavian settlers and the Normans, though it died out after the Middle Ages. It was revived in the English-speaking world by Sir Walter Scott's poem 'The Vision of Don Roderick' (1811).


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (video game) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (video game) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)
Quidditch Through the Ages
Fantastic Beasts: Cases from the Wizarding World (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)


== Notes and references ==