Sally-Anne Perks (c. 1979-1980) was a witch who began attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 1991, though she may not have stayed for her Ordinary Wizarding Level year. She was sorted right before Harry Potter and was either sorted into Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, or Slytherin house.


== Behind the scenes ==
Although Sally-Anne Perks was in the same year as Harry in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, there is no other mention of her in the series.
However, she may be the unidentified bespectacled girl or one of the unnamed Gryffindor girls in Harry's year, in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (film). It is also possible that she was one of the two un-named Hufflepuff girls in Harry's year, since only Susan Bones, Hannah Abbott and Megan Jones were mentioned to be sorted into Hufflepuff.
Sally-Anne Perks was not called to take her test for a practical examination in the 1996 O.W.L.s. Her turn should have come after the Patil twins but before Harry Potter. This could just be a mistake of J. K. Rowling, or Sally-Anne may have been unable to attend her test. She could also have repeated one or more years, which would make her a fourth or younger year while Harry was in his fifth year.
The option for Perks as a family name for the protagonist of Fantastic Beasts: Cases from the Wizarding World suggests Sally-Anne may have been a half-blood or a pure-blood.


=== Translations ===
Afrikaans: Wolfgang Petzel
Dutch: Sally Pekel
Hebrew: סאלי-אן פרקס
Italian: Sally Anne Gaius
Japanese: サリー-アン・パークス (Sarīan Pākusu)
Lithuanian: Seli Ana Perks
Norwegian: Anna-Klara Pomp
Portuguese (Brazil): Sara Perks
Russian: Салли-Энн Перкс (Salli-Enn Perks)
Serbian: Сали Ен Перкс (Sali En Perks)
Slovak: Sally-Anne Perksová
Welsh: Siriol Pennant
The following languages are the same as the original:


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (First mentioned)
Harry Potter and Me (Mentioned only)
Pottermore (Mentioned only)


== Notes and references ==