Squawk was a female Occamy owned by Professor Silvanus Kettleburn.


== Biography ==
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Squawk sleeping 		 	 
During the 1986–1987 school year, in the Hippogriff Clubhouse, Kettleburn asked Jacob's sibling and Liz Tuttle to take care of her while he was away helping a Magical Creatures Reserve in Ireland with their Chimaera. 
While the club members were distracted by discussing a bad omen that Barnaby Lee saw while practising Cartomancy, Liz realised Squawk was gone. She presumably had used her choranaptyxic ability to shrink herself and slipped out without being noticed.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Squawk coming down to protect the fake Occamy eggs 		 	 
She went to the Courtyard, and after she was gone, the students found some torn paper from a mysterious package sent to the Hippogriff Club along with her feathers on the ground. She had also been to Filch's office and wreaked havoc there, leaving some more paper. The students devised a plan to lure her out by taking advantage of the Occamy's protective instincts towards their eggs.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Squawk protecting the fake Occamy eggs 		 	 
As true Occamy eggs are extremely rare and expensive, even Jae Kim couldn't obtain any, so they used silver painted Ostrich eggs as a substitute. Jacob's sibling and Charlie Weasley then used Incendio to create small, controlled fires to simulate danger. Though an adult Occamy wouldn't have been fooled by the ruse, Squawk was. She protectively encircled the eggs, allowing Liz to capture her.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			The Hippogriff Club fiesta 		 	 
Later, the students determined that the package that Squawk had destroyed was a first edition copy of Have Yourself a Fiesta in a Bottle! by Libatius Borage that the Castelobruxo Hippogriff Club had sent them as a goodwill gift. They were eventually able to recover enough pieces to restore the book and sent the Castelobruxo club some Laughing Potion brewed from the book's recipe in return. Squawk was present when the Hippogriff Club decided to throw their own fiesta, that is, party.


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (First appearance)


== Notes and references ==