This individual was a Dark Wizard and Death Eater, who served as one of Lord Voldemort's servants during the Second Wizarding War.


== Biography ==

He was present during the meeting at Malfoy Manor sitting between Draco Malfoy and Corban Yaxley, where he made derisive comments about the Order of the Phoenix's intelligence, provoking malicious laughter from all present.
This man was one of the Death Eaters who invaded the Burrow and attacked the guests of the wedding of Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			The Death Eater talking with Hermione disguised as Bellatrix 		 	 
Later, he met Hermione Granger in Diagon Alley and said "Madam Lestrange" with a nod, since Hermione had taken Polyjuice Potion to look like Bellatrix Lestrange in order to enter the Lestrange Vault and he did not know she was an impostor, though he did seem somewhat confused by her polite response. He was among the Death Eaters in the Forbidden Forest during the Battle of Hogwarts who watched as Harry Potter turned himself over to Voldemort. He was later seen when Voldemort brought Harry's supposedly dead body back to Hogwarts and took part in the final battle where he was defeated by Minerva McGonagall. He was possibly killed or imprisoned in Azkaban after the battle.


== Physical appearance ==
He was described as squat, meaning he was short and chubby. He had a wheezy laugh and no hair on his head besides a beard and moustache.


== Behind the scenes ==
This Death Eater is portrayed by Graham Duff.
In Behind the Scenes of the film Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2, this Death Eater seems to be shot with the Full Body-Bind Curse cast by Minerva McGonagall and falls forwards close to where Molly Weasley is fighting. Although it is from a behind the scenes clip, it could possibly be a part of the Deleted Scenes, Exclusive Scenes or Behind the Scenes.
Although in the book he is described as squat, in the film he is almost completely opposite: tall and chubby. In fact, he is one of the tallest Death Eaters.
In a behind the scenes clip, this man is seen disapparating alongside several others as the Malfoy family leaves. He leaves as Bellatrix begins to scream, however, he is still fighting until he is jinxed seconds before Bellatrix's final fight.


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2


== Notes and references ==