Trevor was Neville Longbottom’s pet toad, whom he frequently lost during his first year at Hogwarts. Trevor was a gift from Neville’s Great Uncle Algie in recognition of the first time Neville showed magical ability and thus gaining admission to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Eventually, Trevor wandered off and joined the other amphibians in and around the Black Lake.


== Biography ==


=== Early life ===
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Neville with his grandmother and Trevor 		 	 
Neville's great uncle Algie used to own Trevor until he gave him to Neville as a gift from him for receiving permission to go to Hogwarts.


=== 1990s ===
Neville lost Trevor many times. For example, the first time he came to Hogwarts on the Hogwarts Express, Neville lost Trevor but was soon helped by Hermione Granger who met Harry Potter and Ron Weasley during her search.
Neville eventually found Trevor once reaching Hogwarts in one of the boats after Hagrid asked Neville about Trevor.
Professor Flitwick once made Trevor fly around his Charms classroom to skilfully demonstrate the Levitation Charm.
During the night Harry, Ron and Hermione went to penetrate the Underground Chambers, the trio left the common room but was confronted by Neville and a croaking Trevor until Hermione froze Neville using the Full Body-Bind Curse.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Neville Longbottom and Trevor in 1993 		 	 
In Neville's third year, Trevor was part of the Frog Choir when they performed Double Trouble on 1 September.
Later on the school year, Professor Snape made Neville test his Shrinking Solution on the toad with the warning that if made incorrectly, it would likely be poisonous. After Trevor drank the potion, he successfully transformed into a tadpole, much to Neville's delight. However, Professor Snape was displeased and spitefully deducted five points from Gryffindor because Hermione had helped Neville create the potion.
Harry used Trevor to practise the Summoning Charm in his and Neville's fourth year.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Trevor, Harry, Neville, Ginny and Luna covered in Stinksap 		 	  
When Harry encountered Neville in the last carriage of the Hogwarts Express in their fifth year, Neville had a one-handed grip on a struggling Trevor. Later, Neville dumped the toad into Harry's lap so that he could demonstrate the defensive mechanism of his Mimbulus Mimbletonia. This was to Harry's regret when Cho Chang then visited the compartment, as "he would not have chosen to be sitting with Neville and Luna Lovegood, clutching a toad and dripping in Stinksap."
In 1996, Trevor made a bid for freedom on the Hogwarts Express, but Neville caught him again.


=== Later life ===
At some point, Trevor escaped into the Lake. Both the pet and the owner felt a sense of relief.


== Behind the scenes ==
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			The smooth sided toad that played Trevor in the first three films 		 	 
The species of toad used for Trevor in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (film) and Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (film) is a smooth sided toad.
Trevor also appears briefly in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (film) in front of Neville after Professor McGonnagall demonstrates a transfiguration spell on her pet hornbill.
Matthew Lewis, the actor of Neville Longbottom, said that he's had plenty of experience with frogs and toads while growing up.
A fan-proposed theory stated Trevor was the Animagus form of Neville's Uncle Algie, but this was said to be false by J. K. Rowling.
In the Spanish translations of the books, Trevor has been translated to be a turtle instead of a toad.
In the scene when the trio leaves the common room to save the Philosopher's Stone, Trevor is mistakenly referred to as a female in the German version. All other times he is mentioned, including all other books, he is male.
In the Polish version, Trevor was referred to as a female too.
In the initial PC release of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, when Harry has a broomstick battle with Malfoy to retrieve Neville's Remembrall, Neville, upon Harry's retrieval of the Remembrall, learns that Trevor is in the Herbology greenhouse and runs to find him, due to the greenhouses containing carnivorous plants.
In Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, Neville finds Trevor in one of the boats (with a little help from Hagrid). In Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (film), Neville finds Trevor on the top stair leading to one of the hallways to the Great Hall while Minerva McGonagall is discussing the Sorting Ceremony with the first years.


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (film)
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (video game)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (film) (briefly)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (film) (briefly)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (video game) (GBA version)
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (film) (Disc 2)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (video game)
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (film)
LEGO Creator: Harry Potter
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7
Pottermore
Wizarding World
Harry Potter Trading Card Game
Harry Potter: The Creature Vault
LEGO Dimensions
Harry Potter: Wizards Unite


== Notes and references ==