This wizard attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in the 1980s.


== Biography ==
During his time at Hogwarts, he was Sorted into an unknown house. At some point during his time at school, he became a Chaser of an unknown Quidditch team.
In the 1985–1986 school year, during the first practice match of the term, Skye Parkin saved Jacob's sibling from getting hit by a Bludger that was heading towards the stands. However, while she saved them, her play cost her team by knocking out this individual for the season.
He always ate kippers for breakfast before each Quidditch match. The one time he skipped was before the Quidditch friendly against Erika Rath's team during which he was injured, and as such, he made sure to never skip eating kippers for breakfast again.
Before the final match, Skye Parkin was injured and unable to play. As a result, this individual played on the team during the final match.
He continued playing on the team the following year. He ate kippers for an entire week before the team's first House match that year. After this, Poppy Pomfrey told him not to eat so many kippers.
He also played on the team on the 1987–1988 school year.


== Behind the scenes ==
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			This character's original appearance 		 	 
Before 1986–1987 school year, he never had detention.
His house is the same as that of Jacob's sibling, which is chosen by the player.
Originally, the Chaser was female and had copper hair and light skin. The character's appearance was later changed to a male with dark skin and black hair for the "Quidditch Cup" achievement quest. Later, in Quidditch Season 2 Chapter 1, his appearance was changed yet again, this time with light skin and a different haircut, although he still keeps his appearance with dark skin in other places such as the Clean Sweep event. However, lines said in the Quidditch chapters indicate these are all the same character.
The Chaser's second appearance was later used for another Chaser in Quidditch Season 3.


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (First appearance)


== Notes and references ==