This girl was a witch and Gryffindor student at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.


== Biography ==


=== Early life ===
This girl was born in either 1979 or 1980. She started her first year of magical education at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 1991, and was Sorted into Gryffindor. She shared a dormitory in Gryffindor Tower with Lavender Brown, Hermione Granger, Parvati Patil and another girl. She and the ginger girl befriended, while Parvati and Lavender grew close and Hermione gradually became friends with Harry Potter and Ronald Weasley.


=== Third year ===
In her third year in 1993, the girl chose Care of Magical Creatures and Divination as her elective subjects.
In her first Defence Against the Dark Arts lesson, she and her Gryffindor classmates were taught about Boggarts by Remus Lupin, the new teacher as of Professor Lockhart's departure, and had a practical lesson on how to banish them. She faced the Boggart, and it frightened her by becoming either a rat, rattlesnake or eyeball, the other two belonging to her friend and to Lavender.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			The girl in a Care of Magical Creatures lesson 		 	 
During the first Care of Magical Creatures, which she went with her friend, they were told that their copies of The Monster Book of Monsters, which had bitten them, had to be stroked in order to open. When Professor Hagrid, who took Kettleburn's place after he resigned, introduced the Hippogriff Buckbeak, the girl, along with the rest of the class, did not seem to be able to believe her eyes. After Hagrid asked for a volunteer, she was afraid and stepped back, leaving Harry Potter to interact with Buckbeak instead. She watched apprehensively behind Hermione and Ronald Weasley, and applauded happily after Harry flew the Hippogriff. Unfortunately for him, Malfoy insulted Buckbeak, who proceeded to attack him. The girl ran and hid behind a rock with her best-friend and Parvati. The class was dismissed while Hagrid took Malfoy to Madam Pomfrey in the Hospital Wing.
The girl went to Hogsmeade Village, on at least the first weekend they were allowed, and went with a girl other than her friend, as she may not have been able to go.
The girl was later present during the Divination lesson that Hermione, after being insulted by Professor Trelawney, stormed out of the class. At the time, she was crystal-gazing with her friend, and looked up in surprise after Hermione left. She returned to her work straight away, and was later one of the last out of the classroom. On the Divination staircase, she walked with another girl, rather than her friend, who walked into Harry Potter.


== Physical description ==
She was considerably taller than her friend, with brown hair which reached her shoulder blades. She had blue eyes and often wore her uniform tidily, though she took off her jumper and robe during one Care of Magical Creatures lesson and carried them around on her arm. Occasionally, she wore her hair in pigtails, like her friend.


== Behind the scenes ==
J. K. Rowling has been asked about the two unidentified girls in in the third film, in three interviews. She said their names were in her notebook, and promised twice to post them on her website, but has not as of yet. Even if she does, it will be impossible to say which name belongs to which girl.
The girls' names may have already appeared partially on the class list shown on Harry Potter and Me.
It is highly likely that the girl was either Alice Tolipan or Luca Caruso, the two unknown individuals who joined Dumbledore's Army. If not, then she and her friend were the only Gryffindors in their year not to join the group.
Other possible identities include Sally-Anne Perks, Lily Moon, Sophie Roper, Sally Smith, or Runcorn.
She is portrayed by an unidentified actress in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban.


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (film) (First appearance)


== Notes and references ==