This witch (b. 1979-1980) attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry as a Gryffindor from 1991 onwards, and was a classmate of Harry Potter.
In her third year, she took Divination and Care of Magical Creatures as her electives. Providing she was not a Muggle-born, she presumably graduated in 1998.


== Biography ==


=== Early life ===
The red-haired witch was born in 1979 or 1980, to presumably a wizarding family.
She received her Hogwarts acceptance letter in 1991, and began her first year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry on 1 September, that same year.


=== Education at Hogwarts ===


==== Third year ====
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			The witch on Hogwarts grounds 		 	 
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			The girl with Neville Longbottom 		 	 
After the summer holidays in 1993, this girl returned to Hogwarts for the 1993–1994 school year, though this time Dementors were standing guard at every entrance. She performed with the Frog Choir at the 1993 Start-of-Term Feast in the Great Hall.
She took Divination and Care of Magical Creatures as her elective subjects in her third year.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			The girl and her friend in Care of Magical Creatures 		 	 
During her first Care of Magical Creatures lesson, she and other students were told that their copies of The Monster Book of Monsters, which had bitten them, had to be stroked in order to open. When Professor Rubeus Hagrid introduced the Hippogriff Buckbeak, she, along with the rest of the class, did not seem to be able to believe her eyes. After Hagrid asked for a volunteer, the Gryffindor girl was afraid and stepped back, leaving Harry Potter to interact with Buckbeak instead. She watched apprehensively alongside Hermione and Neville Longbottom, and applauded happily after Harry flew the Hippogriff. Unfortunately for him, Malfoy insulted Buckbeak, who proceeded to attack him. The Gryffindor girl ran and hid behind a rock with her best-friend and Parvati. The class was dismissed while Hagrid took Malfoy to Madam Pomfrey in the Hospital Wing.
In her first Defence Against the Dark Arts lesson of the year, her and other Gryffindors were taught about Boggarts by Remus Lupin, the new teacher as of Professor Lockhart's departure, and had a practical lesson on how to banish them. The girl faced the Boggart, and it frightened her by turning into either a rat, rattlesnake or eyeball.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			The girl, her friend, Lavender Brown and Parvati Patil in Divination 		 	 
The Gryffindor girl was later present during the lesson that Hermione, after being insulted by Professor Trelawney, stormed out of the class. At the time, she was crystal-gazing with her friend, and looked up in surprise after Hermione left. She returned to her work straight away, and was later the last person out of the classroom. On the Divination staircase, she walked with a boy, rather than with her friend, who was ahead of her with another girl. Harry, who was returning to the classroom, accidentally walked into the girl, and said sorry.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			The girl with Ron and Hermione 		 	 
The girl watched Harry Potter fly on his Firebolt and cheered happily.


== Physical description ==
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			The girl standing behind Hermione Granger 		 	 
This girl had red hair, which, during her Hogwarts years, she often wore as plaits. She had blue eyes and white skin, and wore her school uniform very neatly. Unlike her friend, during her magical creatures class in her third year, she did not take off her robe, but she did take off her jumper and tie it around her waist. She was considerably shorter than fellow Gryffindor Neville Longbottom, and was slightly shorter than Hermione Granger.


== Behind the scenes ==
J. K. Rowling has been asked about the two unidentified girls in the third film in three interviews. She said their names were in her notebook, and promised twice to post them on her website, but has not as of yet. Even if she does, it will be impossible to say which name belongs to which girl.
The girls' names may have already appeared partially on the class list shown on Harry Potter and Me.
It is highly likely that the girl was Alice Tolipan, the individual who joined Dumbledore's Army. If not, then she and her friend were the only Gryffindors in their year not to join the group.
Other possible identities include Sally-Anne Perks, Lily Moon, Sophie Roper, Sally Smith, or Runcorn.
She is portrayed by Danielle Downey in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban.


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (film) (First appearance)


== Notes and references ==