This Demiguise was involved in a theft during the 1986–1987 school year.


== Biography ==
During the 1986–1987 school year this Demiguise stole various items from the area around Hogsmeade and Hogwarts at around the time that Jules Egwu arrived in the village to visit her cousin Andre.
Among the items it took were Butterscotch from the Three Broomsticks Inn, Sugar Quill from Zonko's Joke Shop, and Mallowsweet from Penny Haywood's personal stock. After learning of the thefts, Jules and Andre, along with Andre's friend, Jacob's sibling, decided to investigate. They were joined by Penny after the theft of her items.
During the investigation, Jacob's sibling deduced that the thief may be a Demiguise as it left white hairs at each scene and none of the group saw anything during their initial attempt to lure it out, despite being in a Hogwarts Greenhouse with a clear view of the entire area. This indicated that the thief might be able to become invisible.
As Demiguises were highly intelligent and had the ability to see the future, they were difficult to trap, so they had to plan an unpredictable trap to do so. They accomplished this by setting up a decoy trap in the greenhouse while dipping the candy meant to lure the creature there in a Sleeping Draught.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			This Demiguise put to sleep 		 	 
As expected, the creature ate the candy trail while avoiding the decoy, which it perceived as the danger. Once it fell asleep it became visible, allowing the group to capture it.
Jules decided to take it with her when she returned to Japan, where she and her parents were living, as that was part of the creature's natural habitat range. She planned to ask her parents, who were Magizoologists, to find a suitable place to release it.


== Behind the scenes ==
Before the creature was determined to be a Demiguise, Liz Tuttle talked about naming an invisible creature "Viz" if she had encountered one. However, it is unknown if Liz actually met and named this Demiguise after it was captured.
The fact that it only stole sweet things indicates that it had a taste for sugar. It isn't clear if this is unique to this individual, or if it's a common trait of the species.
The side quest's title "A Scandal in Hogsmeade" is likely a reference to the famous Sherlock Holmes story "A Scandal in Bohemia".


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (First appearance)


== Notes and references ==