This unidentified Hungarian Horntail was the female dragon that Harry Potter had to get by in the First Task of the 1994 Triwizard Tournament.


== Biography ==
 Due to his earlier espionage, Harry Potter was, in fact, aware of the sole remaining choice before he drew it from the bag of selection. According to Charles Weasley, she could shoot fire forty feet. He felt sorry for whomever got the Horntail, as its "back end's as dangerous as its front", and felt unable to tell his mother of the terrors awaiting Harry. He proceeded the inevitable and drew the tiny Horntail model dragon depicting the from the bag, revealing his opponent to the rest of the occupants in the Waiting Tent.
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Harry during the First Task 		 	 
When it was Harry's turn, he Summoned his Firebolt broomstick to him and used it to manoeuvre around the dragon to retrieve the Golden egg. Charlie helped transport the dragon from Romania.
After the task, Harry kept the miniature version of the Horntail he received when he drew the Horntail for the Task.
When faced with the agony of trying to ask someone to the Yule Ball, Harry said that he would have preferred facing the Horntail again.


== Behind the scenes ==
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			The Horntail in LEGO form 		 	 
The neck part of the Basilisk prop from the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets was reused to create the neck of this Hungarian Horntail.
In the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, the Horntail broke free of its chain and attacked Harry. The two of them fought in an exciting chase that spanned all around the castle grounds, almost causing Harry to fall to his death at one point when he was trying to reach his Firebolt, but when the chase continued, Harry flew through the Viaduct, which the Horntail crashed into, breaking its wing and causing it to fall into the chasm below, presumably to its death.
In the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, the Hungarian Horntail model that was given to Harry from Barty Crouch Snr is seen in the Roast chestnuts sale, located in Diagon Alley. It is possible that Harry gave his dragon to Fred and George who put it there.
In LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4, Hermione falls into the arena with Harry and they both have to battle it. It not only breaks free like in the film, but it also chases them into the castle.
In the film, Harry is shown to have a sling around his arm after he gets slashed by the tail.


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (First appearance)
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (film)
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (video game)
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (video game) (Mentioned only)
LEGO Harry Potter: Building the Magical World
LEGO Harry Potter: Characters of the Magical World
LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4
LEGO Harry Potter
Harry Potter: The Character Vault (Mentioned only)
Harry Potter: The Creature Vault
Pottermore
Wizarding World
Harry Potter: Magic Awakened (Mentioned only)


== Notes and references ==