Wandless were witches and wizards who had become vagrants and homeless after being stripped of their wands, jobs and families by Lord Voldemort's regime at the Ministry of Magic. Most of these were Muggle-born, or half-bloods unable to prove their ancestry, though former Ministry personnel that the Death Eaters had deemed Undesirable, like Aurors. also suffered this fate.


== Description ==
These individuals were accused of having stolen magic from "real" wizards and witches by the Muggle-Born Registration Commission. Some were sent to Azkaban Fortress, but others were apparently simply forced to live as vagabonds, huddling in doorways at Diagon Alley. They tended to beg and plead with more prosperous wizards that gave patronage to the street's establishments, though they were thoroughly ignored, and in many cases abused by Death Eaters and their supporters. Some did not take their persecution lying down however, as one attacked Hermione Granger, who at the time was disguised as Bellatrix Lestrange, in a fit of rage.


== History ==
Harry Potter, Hermione Granger, and Ron Weasley came across these beggars on their way to Gringotts Wizarding Bank in the spring of 1998. They were huddled in doorways, "moaning to the few passersby, pleading for gold, insisting that they were really wizards". When they spotted Hermione, who was disguised as Bellatrix Lestrange by use of Polyjuice Potion, they turned away and hid. One, however, approached her and demanded to know what had happened to his children. When she could not answer, the beggar lunged for her throat, prompting Ron to Stun him. The trio then ran into Travers, a Death Eater who mocked the beggars and then accompanied them into Gringotts, which the trio subsequently robbed in order to obtain one of Lord Voldemort's Horcruxes. A witch, in particular, plead for Travers to lend her his wand to prove she was a witch and to appeal her case in the Ministry, to which he brutally mocked her in return.
After Voldemort's defeat on 2 May, 1998, and Minister Shacklebolt's de-corruption of the Ministry, these wizards and witches were presumably able to regain wands and resume the lives and jobs they had before being stripped of their wands.


== Appearances ==
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows (First appearance)


== Notes and references ==