Xavier Rastrick (b. 1750, vanished in 1836) was a lively wizard entertainer who is famous for unexpectedly vanishing during a performance in Painswick before the very eyes of his audience, never to be seen again.


== Biography ==
 	 	 	 		 		 		 			A younger Rastrick during one of his dance routines 		 	 
Born in 1750, Xavier Rastrick became a performer in the early nineteenth century. By the 1830s, his exuberant personality attracted a relatively large audience to his shows.
In 1836, a crowd of three hundred witches and wizards gathered in the village of Painswick to watch one of his performances. The show, however, became infamous, as Rastrick unexpectedly vanished halfway through a tap-dance routine and was never seen or heard from again. He was subsequently declared dead, with his true fate unknown.
By the 1990s, Rastrick was featured on a Chocolate Frog Card for his mysterious disappearance.


== Behind the scenes ==
The reason why Rastrick suddenly disappeared is completely unknown, let alone whether or not he truly vanished into non-being. It might have been a case of vanishing sickness. Alternatively, Rastrick might have become un-born due to some time-travelling mishap (as his disappearance was before 1899, when the Ministry stopped conducting time-travelling experiments).
Based on the fact that his sudden and unexpected disappearance is similar to the recurring disappearances of Quidditch referees, a similar situation may have happened, where an object in contact with Rastrick, such as his hat, was transformed into a Portkey, whisking him away from the stage to somewhere else where he may have died or turned up far into the future.


== Etymology ==
The name "Xavier" is derived from the Basque place name Etxaberri meaning "the new house". This was the surname of the Jesuit priest Saint Francis Xavier (1506—1552). He was a missionary to India, Japan, China, and other areas in eastern Asia, and he is the patron saint of the Orient and missionaries. His surname has since been adopted as a given name in his honour, chiefly among Catholics.


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone (video game) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (video game) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (video game) (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)
Pottermore (Appears on a Famous Wizard Card)


== Notes and references ==