Madam Zenith Xeep was a Dark Witch and renowned opera diva in the wizarding world.


== Biography ==
Zenith Xeep was born, probably at some point before 1909, to famous opera singers Lydian and Octavia Xeep.
In her adulthood, Madam Xeep enjoyed a long and renowned career of her own as an operatic soprano. Among her repertoire were roles like the Queen of the Night in The Magic Flute, a personal favourite of Garrick Ollivander. Her career was covered in the press substantially by Daily Prophet reporter Rita Skeeter, who she befriended.
In the 1990s, she stole a wand from Ollivanders and put a fake wand in its place. She invented Xeep's Luscious Locks Solution, and was the founder of a cosmetics company called Xeep, named after herself. She held a Meet-and-Greet for her company in the Leaky Cauldron, where she first met Ben Copper and Jacob's sibling. The solution caused memory loss to several of its users, including Garrick Ollivander and Madam Villanelle, and was later identified to be a potent memory-erasing potion.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Zenith confronted by Jacob's sibling in Knockturn Alley 		 	 
When the British Ministry of Magic initiated an investigation, Zenith went hiding in Knockturn Alley. She was caught having a meeting with a Dark Witch from R by Ben and Jacob's sibling, and when she was about to hand over the wand she had stolen, Ben Copper emerged, and was soon Stunned by the Dark Witch. When Jacob's sibling also appeared and the Dark Witch Disapparated, Jacob's sibling duelled Zenith, and after they won, she drank a bottle of Xeep's Luscious Locks Solution, making herself forget what had happened, along with, however, her name.

 	 	 	 		 		 		 			Zenith Xeep hospitalised in the Janus Thickey Ward 		 	 
After this, Xeep was hospitalised in the Janus Thickey Ward in St Mungo's as she had lost her memory, and was cared for Healer Miriam Strout, who treated her with a restorative potion. When on work experience at the hospital, Jacob's sibling was surprised to realise that Strout had assigned them to care for her, as they had apprehened her. They told Strout about Xeep's criminal behaviour and Strout acknowledged how Healers had to treat everyone, even if they were Dark Witches. Later, when Jacob's sibling began their treatment of her, Xeep did not remember them prior to her hospitalisation, and only remembered their face from being in the ward. Xeep after consuming some of the restorative potion, told them she briefly remembered meeting R at one of her shows, but then her memory lapsed again, and she fell asleep.


== Magical abilities and skills ==
Potions: Madam Xeep invented her own formula for her hair care potion Xeep's Luscious Locks Solution, which also possessed potent memory loss powers.
Duelling: Madam Xeep was a fairly accomplished duellist who was able to face Jacob's sibling down in magical combat, although she was no match for their superior skills and was defeated.
Dark Arts: Madam Xeep was a Dark Witch who worked for R, meaning she had a level of skill in Dark Magic.
Opera singing: Madam Xeep was famous for her powerful opera singing voice, allowing her to become an esteemed performer in the field in the wizarding world.


== Behind the scenes ==
Garrick Ollivander, who was at least in his early eighties in 1990, claimed to have been a fan of Madam Xeep since he was a lad, suggesting that she was far older than she looked in 1990–1991. She might have accomplished this with a de-ageing amulet. However, he may have meant lad as in the sense of a young adult lessening this somewhat.
Quite appropriately, the role of The Queen of the Night is the villain of The Magic Flute, a powerful Sorceress and Queen who wants to steal the powerful artefact known as the Circle of the Sun. The role is a demanding one, infamous for the difficulty of the Queen's second aria, "Der Hölle Rache", suggesting that Zenith Xeep was an extremely skilled singer.


== Appearances ==

Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery (First appearance)


== Notes and references ==